# Meeting 9, 24/01/2020

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

## Action Items from previous meeting

1. Research GEDCOM 
    *  Write up about GEDCOM
    * Potentially implement GEDOM algorithm
2. Render bespoke graph
    * Create a new branch for this new bespoke graph
    * Find existing graph rendering platforms 
    * Find out how to layout the graphs (see graph layout algorithm below)
    * Render a simple graph
3. Implement a graph layout algorithm
    * Research force-directed layout algorithms
    * Write about the different algorithms discovered
    * Attempt at least one of them - render the graphs using this graph layout algorithm
4. Digitze the different layout designs - differences between different types of relationships
    * Send to Ben and Greta for review
4. Get the list of recommended changes from Greta
    * Import Greta's new data
    * Add Greta's new changes
        * Hera listed as male - &#9745;
        * Remove "child of crete" check in conditions
        * Ensure "is alternative name of" is updated and check that the pages are consistent
        * Check the entities.csv for collective connections (the Danaids is child of Danaos) to use for subheadings.
        * Remove visualisations for connections between collectives. Only show agent collectives in graph.
        * Show <x> is part of <y> in the filecards for the entities. - show subcollectives (members)
        * Remove "with undefined" in other parent - &#9745;
        * Remove pluralisation of "fathers" and "mothers" - &#9745;
4. Change "disputed relationship" and "disputed connection" to "disputed tradition".
4. Add depth search input to graph 
   - Add depth search functionality with set values for testing purposes - &#9745;
   - Add depth search input field in interface
   - Deal with depth-search entity node repeats
What to do about the edge labels when depth > 1 - mother", "father", "sibling" etc?
5. Send Greta my list of changes
    1. Cross-reference alternative names in the data card pages - do "is alternative name for" in datacard instead of leaving it blank. - &#9745; ```See Newfound issues in database section```
    2. Collectives - genealogical (e.g. Danaids and Dioscouroi):
        - Add subheading - "Daughters/sons of" - &#9745;
        - Remove all other genealogical informationbut have no other relationship information  - &#9745;
        - Address multiple parents (+alternatives) - &#9731; ```Having trouble with this because the genealogy of the Danaids and the Dioscouroi aren't in the ties.csv, nor the entities.csv```
        - Add divine father to collective subheading. - &#9746;
        - Keep the parent information in order - &#9746; 
6. Finish writing up the agenda for the next meeting
7. Submit the DH2020 review responses
    * Write draft response 
    * Send draft response to Greta for checking
    * Send response to DH2020 by 14th Jan (next Tuesday)
8. Write up about the pros and cons of my existing prototype (using d3 render). Use for the thesis.
    * Read Greta's comment in the last meeting's notes
9. Find and read papers - one a day.
    * Write up about each, and quote from each
10. Fix search function so prioritize names not identifying information - &#9746;
    * Find a better, alternative dropdown selector - &#9746;
    * Modify the search algorithm so it suits the above purpose (prioritize first over second) - &#9746;
    * FIx search so by clicking on the name it redirects to the new page. - &#9746;
11. Determine the research question for my thesis - will help with framing how much and the type of research that is required.
12. Enrol in COMP4540 semester 1 - ```Permission codes will be given out in early February```
13. Keep in mind costs and scholarships if DH2020 entry is accepted.

## Meeting Agenda

### Research Question in One Sentence:

### What I'm currently working on:
*

### Upcoming dates to be aware of:
*

### Next step and what's getting in the way:

* Determine when we would like to host the user interview for the scholars.
* If incomplete - make a disclaimer to the user that the visualisations are yet incomplete, however the filecards are essentially complete. Get the feedback with this.
* Write up the reasoning for the different user researches in the interview.
* See Ben and Greta's comments in the last meeting's notes.

### Other discussion topics


## Action Items for Next Meeting (DD/MM/YYYY):
1. 


