# Meeting 9, 31/01/2020

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
`All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks`

## Action Items from previous meeting

The following are in order of priority. Highest priority changes are the _currently_ crucial changes. Medium priority changes are those that should only be attempted once the higher priority changes have been completed to a satisfactory quality. Lowest priority changes are procrastination methods / general aesthetic changes.

### Highest priority changes

1. Submit the DH2020 review responses
   - Write draft response - &#9745;
   - Send draft response to Greta for checking - &#9745;
   - Modify draft in response to Ben's recommendations - &#9745;
   - Send response to DH2020 by 14th Jan (next Tuesday) - &#9745;
2. Research GEDCOM
   - Write up about GEDCOM - &#9745;
   - Potentially implement GEDCOM algorithm - `Not possible, GEDCOM algorithm does not allow for intergenerational relationships or unusual relationshp types`
3. Render bespoke graph
   - Create a new branch for this new bespoke graph - &#9745;
   - Find existing graph rendering platforms - &#9745; - `None of them were adequate - just used the HTML canvas tag for the initial prototype`
   - Find out how to layout the graphs (see graph layout algorithm below) - `Conducted research on different algorthms, writing them up now.`
   - Render a simple graph - &#9731;
4. Implement a graph layout algorithm
   - Research force-directed layout algorithms - &#9745;
   - Write about the different algorithms discovered - &#9731;
   - Attempt at least one of them - render the graphs using this graph layout algorithm - &#9731;
5. Write up about the pros and cons of my existing prototype (using d3 render). Use for the thesis. - &#9745;
   - Import supervisor comments from the last meeting's notes - &#9745;
6. Find and read papers - one a day. - &#9731;
   - Write up about each, and quote from each - &#9731; `Have a list of all papers to read, see docs/Readings`
7. See if D3.js graph formatting can be changed to genealogical / hierarchical - &#9745; `Yes but they are difficult to format and also stuck to a linear hierarchy`

### Medium priority changes

1. Digitize the different layout designs - differences between types of relationships - &#9745;
   - Use Sketch to digitze the relationship types and use/put in the thesis - &#9745;
     - Possibly draw up example versions of genealogies - &#9746;
       - Draw up and digitize how Hephaistos's genealogy would be shown
       - Draw up and digitze how Zeus' (long) descendants list would be shown. One page? Centered? Layered?
   - Send to Ben and Greta for review - &#9745;
2. Add depth search input to graph - &#9746;
   - Add depth search functionality with set values for testing purposes - &#9745;
   - Add depth search input field in interface
   - Deal with depth-search entity node repeats
   - What to do about the edge labels when depth > 1 - mother", "father", "sibling" etc?
3. Fix search function so prioritize names not identifying information - &#9746;
   - Find a better, alternative dropdown selector - &#9746;
   - Modify the search algorithm so it suits the above purpose (prioritize first over second) - &#9746;
   - FIx search so by clicking on the name it redirects to the new page. - &#9746;
4. Determine the research question for my thesis - will help with framing how much and the type of research that is required.
5. Read the paper from Harvard Greta found me. - &#9745;

### Lowest priority changes

1. Get the list of recommended changes from Greta - &#9745;
   - Import Greta's new data - &#9745;
   - Add Greta's new changes - &#9745;
     - Hera listed as male - &#9745;
     - Remove "child of crete" check in conditions - &#9745;
     - Ensure "is alternative name of" is updated and check that the pages are consistent - &#9745;
     - Check the entities.csv for collective connections (the Danaids is child of Danaos) to use for subheadings. - &#9745;
     - Address multiple parents (+alternatives) - &#9745;
     - Add divine father to collective subheading. - &#9745;
     - Keep the parent information in order - &#9745;
     - Remove visualisations for connections between collectives. Only show agent collectives in graph. - &#9745;
     - Show <x> is part of <y> in the filecards for the entities. - show subcollectives (members) - &#9745;
     - Remove "with undefined" in other parent - &#9745;
     - Remove pluralisation of "fathers" and "mothers" - &#9745;
2. Change "contested relationship" and "contested connection" to "contested tradition". - &#9745;
3. Send Greta my list of changes - &#9745;
   1. Cross-reference alternative names in the data card pages - to "is alternative name for" in datacard instead of leaving it blank. - &#9745;
   2. Collectives - genealogical (e.g. Danaids and Dioscouroi):
      - Add subheading - "Daughters/sons of" - &#9745;
      - Remove all other genealogical information but have no other relationship information - &#9745;
4. Finish writing up the agenda for the next meeting - &#9731;
5. Enrol in COMP4540 semester 1 - &#9745;
6. Keep in mind costs and scholarships if DH2020 entry is accepted. - &#9731;
7. See if there are any instances of changed gender in the ties. Should we account for this? - &#9745; `There are no gender changes`

## Self-identififed required updates

1. Hebe not showing up as mother for 8182191 and 8182126 because in parsed relationship data, is listed as "MOTHERS]"
2. Find a way to add interactivity to the elements - Fabric JS?
   - Make nodes clickable and re-direct to the other node
   - Make edges clickable/hoverable and show info page for relationship
   - Tailor info page to the relationship information
   - Possibly figure out zoom function for graph (not easy with canvasjs, all was a lot easier with d3)
3. Tidy up EntityGraph.jsx code
4. Dynamically generate verticalOffset to reduce excess space with less children (e.g. Apollo), and adequate space for more children (e.g. Zeus)
5. Automatically centre screen on main node & make main node more apparent?
6. Add parthenogenesis nodes to graph (parents)
   - Add contested colour to parthenogenesis
   - Add unusual colour to non-contested
7. Add autochthony nodes to graph (parents)
   - Add contested colour to autochthony
   - Add unusual colour to non-contested
8. Add "unknown" node for where co-parent is unknown. - &9745;
9. Address single parent possibiility- ensure is different from parthenogenesis & co-parent exists but unknown
10. Auto-rerender graph for new page (currently an error where changing pages results in overlaying of graph with previous page)
11. Modify text size in each node if node text > size of box
12. Make the connections more obvious - see Hephaistos. The two children are at alternating sides, however it looks like Anticles -> Ericthonios and Atthis -> Periphetes.

## Meeting Agenda

### What I'm currently working on:

#### See "self-identified required updates"

I noticed a lot of issues when working through the prioritized items from last week. These I'm slowly working through.

I have noticed some issues with interactivity of the elements when using the canvas tag. Will be using the canvas JS addon "react-konva" to add interactivity. This conversion may take some time to get working (~4-5 full days of work) but I will create a new branch for this purpose. However the underlying implementation is the same, so the final output will look like the current design on yayalu.github.io/greekgraphs.

#### Sketch file (digitized design of graphs)

Final design after weeks of experimentation. Was the best design for highlighting the unusual elements (including adding nodes for parthenogenesis and autochthony). Was also the best for showing different relationships between entities - differentiating spouses, parents, siblings, children but still in a standard genealogical way. The different colours are clear.

However see line overlapping issues in Zeus + Hephaistos graphs. How do we get around this issue?

Solutions that I've considered that would be too difficult / confusing to implement:

1. Algorithmically placing the children nodes so that they're closest to their parents
2. Aligning all children vertically below the "other parent"

One solution considered that _could_ reduce the density of connections but wouldn't solve the overlapping problem:

1. Combine the contested parents for the child, rather than have several different connections linking to the same child (see updated Sketch file "contested parents option 2")

#### Writing thesis

I've started to compile a rough thesis outline with different major headings. Super rough, done in word, all in note-taking form (aka. very poor grammar!). See docs/thesis/Thesis.docx.

Every chapter includes notes on the different sections, and the pros and cons for each. I'm constantly updating this document. It includes:

- Ideas to include in the introduction
- Existing research papers I've read and had influence from
- Existing greek graph representations out there
  - Greta is there a digital copy of the graphs from the start of the Smith & Trazkoma book I can use?
- Graph data formats considered and tested
  - GraphLib, JSON, relational databases, GEDCOM, etc.
- Existing graph layout software / graph visualisation tools tested
  - D3, Legacy 9, OrgChart, etc.
- Formats used in genealogical graph representations
  - Ancestor fans, timelines, booklets, DAGs, Chordal diagrams etc.
- Different graph layout algorithms out there
  - Binary tree, bidirectional graphs, directed acyclic graph, fore-directed layouts, hierarchical layouts
- Types of relationships considered for this graphing algorithm
- Early prototypes and the explanations of each, including how earlier versions are used to influence the later versions + screenshots.

Not sure how to format a thesis though, so any advice welcome. Other students recommend LaTeX?

#### Research Papers to read

I've compiled a big list of research papers on graph layout algorithms and genealogical graph representations and put them here: docs/Research/Graph layout research.docx.

Thanks to Ben and Greta for getting that paper for me! It was very useful.

I'm slowly working through them and making notes (quotes, pros and cons, observations) of each of the papers. Aiming to work through at least one a day.

### Upcoming dates to be aware of:

- First semester starts in mid-February. Have already enrolled in the course so I'm confirmed for my second semester of honours, hooray!
- 30th March is the mid-semester exam period, so preferably have the second set of user interviews (with the students) before then.

### Next step and what's getting in the way:

- Determine when we would like to host the user interview for the scholars - still have a long way to go with the implementation, so my aim is late->end of Feb.
- Alternatively, as mentioned last meeting, we can have the interviews earlier and make a disclaimer to the user that the visualisations are yet incomplete, however the filecards are essentially complete. Get the feedback with this.
- Write up the aims for the different types of user research. (See Ben and Greta's comments in the last meeting's notes.)

### Other discussion topics

- Ask Greta - what about Agdistis? Known hermaphroditic deity in greek mythology. Not in ties.json yet, but what should they be listed in future ties? Mother? Father?
- Ge is alternative name for Gaia and Gaea, where Gaia is the more well-known name. But Gaia is not listed in search?

```
Big Picture - what's this thesis going to be about?

Looking at historical approaches to visualising genealogical data? Few cases in greek mythical canon that don't fit -> data vis/ designerly thesis?

The algorithmic side - tweak existing layout algorithms?
Consider this is mostly bespoke, in terms of from a computer science perspective.
- Don't have a strong mathematical background
- Just make sure don't present it as though we're presenting something algorithmic
- If present it as "these are what's wrong with existing graph layouts" then computer scientists could think it's a graph layout problem.
- Maybe prototype all the different layouts. Use as controls in the study - possibly show to the users and see whether the genealogical version is in fact better overall.

This problem is about showing data, and traditionally this data has been shown with these trees
- But this is not trad genealogical data
- How do we represent it?
- Smmall tweaks to existing genealogical charts?
- Or take a step back - if we're no longer using traditional genealogical data, maybe try a different style?

Try each graph layout that currently exists out there

HCI - user-study angle, expert angles? Which version is most intuitive.

Is assessed by a computer science honours panel, not digital humanities research.
```

```
Contested relationships - Greta's new idea.

Current idea for graph layout is more difficult to understand rather than less

"HOw do we show something and convey a particular connotation?
Currently would have to learn the visual language - red means contested, triangle means autochthony. But still would need to teach the viewer.
Currently look and don't immediately understand - e.g. maps, look at blue immediately know it's the ocean.
Shouldn't need a legend to understand it.

Currently the traditional part is very intuitive. - parents, children, can interpret cousin

Challenge - show all the other things that equally seem intuitive (not quite as, but enough). without using colours because colourblindness.

Get of colours, and just attach an icon to part of the family tree

```

```Issue with genealogical graphs - makes everything look like it's happening at the same time. Not true.
need to make more use of the interactivity side of it
```

```
People might use this to trace Hera's genealogy back
The idea of "this X event 5 generations back influenced Hera's <blah>
Each alternative timeline has different results
Like tracing DNA back

*Timeline graph remodelling?*
```

```
What can I do that's *distinctive* to a digital environment? Currently can't show greek graphs on the page properly, want to maximize the digital elements (interactivity)
```

## Action Items for Next Meeting (DD/MM/YYYY):

1. Create icons for autochthony and parthenogenesis
2. Add icons for those as substitute for triangle and circle
3. Try every graph layout algorithm out there and determine applicability to greek mythology
4. Try all different styles of graph layout algorithms - e.g. ancestor fans and timelines and see how applicable they are to greek graphs
   - Potentially do user research on them to see whether genealogical graphs are actually best?
5. See if can implement Greta's suggestion for layered contested parents (alternating views)
6. Need to make it obvous they're from different worlds. Make it obvious that it's NOT possible for someone to have more than 2 parents. (e.g. more like different alternative universes)
7. Use opacity and line width and strong colours to denote unusuality/points of interest
   - e.g. if Hero has only one option for mother, the mother's name is darker font.
   - e.g. if 3 fathers shown, then those are more transparent (e.g. 33% chance that this person is father") - showing the weighting of the tradition via the opacity - show the strength of the connection
   - e.g. Zeus has 2 passage references in Hera's graph - so make Zeus' node darker? Denotes more certainty
   - Could be more useful once more texts are imported into MANTO
8. Make all alternative parents (contested) lighter font, show uncertainty . Find a way to show contest in a more intuitive way.
9. Make divine father more obvious, e.g. icon - thunderbolt
10. Figure out the big picture of the thesis:
    - Algorithmic?
    - Historical / research-focussed?
    - HCI/user-study-based?
    - Try to avoid terminology that results in computer science panel thinking it's an algorithms-developing thesis. My thesis is not a graph-layout problem! The problem is about showing data and how traditional genealogical data visualisations are inappropriate.
11. Determine how I can utilise the "digital platform" more - add what's not possible in a paper graph
12. Determine whether it's possible to trace back genealogies, e.g. trace Hera's genealogy back X generations, so that you can determine what event in her past caused an event in her present. Tracing DNA back. Timeline graph modelling?
