# Meeting X, DD/MM/YYYY

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

## Meeting Agenda

### Upcoming deadlines (TBA discussion Thursday 21st May)

My thesis submission deadline is Monday 29th June 2020, 5pm.
I plan to work solely on the interface until 29th May 2020, and then strictly on the thesis until the deadline.

I'd like to have another meeting closer to the 29th to discuss:
* Structure of the thesis
* Optimal date for first/second drafts to ensure maximum opportunity for feedback
* Overall research questions

### External examiner change

Tehri Numikko-Fuller is examiner 1
Sabrina Caldwell is replacement for Kerry Taylor for my examiner 2

### LaTeX as honours thesis tool? (TBA discussion Thursday 21st May)

Is it worth learning LaTeX? Unfamiliar with it.
Is it detrimental if I use Word instead?

### Second round of user interviews 

Will be modifying my existing Qualtrics survey I developed for ethics approval earlier in the year.

#### Research questions for the user interview

What are the research questions we want?
Focus on error-checking? Whether it's intuitive?

How we can build upon first round of interviews?
- First set of interviews were about finding what the best types had the most potential
- Acknowledge the first round of user interviews and their impact on the current one
- Mention the results from the first round briefly

Purpose for second one:
- Is this a good way of displaying mythical knowledge? 
- Asking for points of improvement

Want to create something intuitive, logical, communicates something. This is to test have we managed that? Best way to sshow this is through user testing.

#### User interview questions to ask / topics

Second round

Categories (ask them to identify)
- Student studying classics or ancient history (group 1)
- Teacher or lecturer in classics or ancient history
- Student not studying classics or ancient history
- Teacher or lecturer  not studying classics or ancient history
- Member of the general public interested in greek myth

Blog post on the MANTO website. (manto-myth.org)
Greta will link this to a couple of facebook pages, and will write to people involved in the past (e.g. first round of user testing).

Mention possible duration of quiz (10 minutes max). As much detail as you would like, as many questions as possible.

Also mention what this second interview builds upon 

e.g. Give mark out of 5 for how easy it was to find x
- Likert scale questions, quantitative
(Allows us to do "X percentage of people rated this <Likely> or above")
Feedback (optional) under each question


e.g. "How easy was it to use the search function?"
e.g. "Did you find the family trees easy to understand?"
e.g. "Did you learn anything while you were using the system?"
e.g. "Were the different kinds of relationships intuitive?"
e.g. "Did the icons make sense to you?"
e.g. "Did you notice any errors in the data?"
e.g. "Were there any bugs in the system"
e.g. "What would you consider using this tool for in the future?" (qualitiative)
e.g. "How could we improve it?" (qualitative)



#### Plan for user interviews

I will ask Greta to put the survey on Wattle for students of the ANU first year classics course to check out. Maybe send out a wattle blast to students?
Whoever responds, responds. 
Results will be easy to quantify in time for the thesis.

My plan is to have the user interview questions finalised, sent to Greta for review, and up by this Thursday.

### Implementation so far

Have implemented most of the functionalities discussed. Buggy but will absolutely suffice. Have started writing a "future work" section in the thesis for things I'd like to fix.

How explicit do we have to be about bugs? Do they worry about bugs a lot when examining the interface?

### Interface clarification questions (for Greta)

* Not sure how to incorporate divine father in the graph, or whether it's feasible/worth it at this point
* How to incorporate "OR" especially when there are multiple possible other parents (e.g. see "Zeus"). OR doesn't work here.
* Not sure about the "unusual births" phrase to describe born from an object, as all unusual births are classified under the umbrella "unusual births". So just left that as born from an object. 

#### Things to leave out:

1. Leave the disputed and unusual relationships as is. DON'T grey out the alternate disputed relationship for now.
2. Divine father paradigm
- Ignore this so far, and just put them as contested parentage

## Action Items for Next Meeting (21/05/2020):
1. A couple paragraph eplanation about what i want, what I've done so far, what I want the user to do (e.g. the questioonnaire to use). Links to go to etc.
2. Add "How to use this website" to the question icon on the corner - &#9745;
3. Fix the multiple icons showing up ("Hephaistos and parthenogenesis")
5. Add "contested" to legend instead of disputed - &#9745;
6. Athena shows up twice in depth zero
7. Contested for dies without children (Asterios)
8. User interview prep
    - Come up with a list of research questions for the user interview based on above
    - Going to the existing quiz on qualtrics and modifying it, some questions
    - Write up a paragraph on what to do to add to the pages etc.
    - Show Ben and Greta the progress and finalise it in our Thursday meeting
    - Aim getting it out Thursday night (or Friday)
10. Give Greta first draft by Monday 15th June
    - Until then, send Greta what I've done when I've done it, e.g. chapters completed
    - Let Greta know in advance when sending words in so she can orgaise her time in case she has meetings etc.
11. Write up a rough main chapters thesis structure to show the team on Thursday
12. OR relationship top corner of box
- Put "OR" next to the disputed and unsuual relationships (e.g Pelasgos Autochthony) as well
- OR is on node by default, regardless of hovering
13. Check cases of half of contested parentaage showing (e.g. Coronis) and have the contested parentage info page show the full dispute
15. Extend the stage width to deal with Zeus
16. Change ScaifeViewer to english rather than greek - &#9745;
17. Mention in thesis:
- As each page and data cards is about the entity's own relationships, the information about whether their children's parentage is disputed is irrelevant to their datacards, and in actuality would overcomplicate the minimalistic nature of the information in the cards
- This emphasizes the benefits for an interactive, graphical interface to go along with the datacards, as we can use the interactiive elements and its emphasis in displaying unusual/disputed relationships, to highlight the dispute of the entity's relationships iin the graph itself, e.g. Coronis's child Asclepios' parentage is disputed but this dispute is not listed in the datacards. Instead, it is shown in a blue line in the graph - is more impactful and relevant there too.

