# Meeting X, DD/MM/YYYY

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

## Action Items from previous meeting

### General updates (based on meeting)
1. Send email to Greta about the above errors - &#9745;
2. Send in ethics approval supporting documents - &#9731;
    - Scan in signed document - &#9731;
    - Create the necessary PDF - &#9731;
    - Send the finalised PDF to the ethis committee (respond to email) - &#9731;
    - Receive response from ethics committee 
4. Graphing algorithm
    - Check if GraphLib addresses self-referential nodes (+ duplicate nodes)
5. Graph visualisation
    - Use existing force-directed layouts first
    - If this works then move towards bespoke visualisation tool
6. Design how to show the different relationships
    - Incestuous relationship highlight vs contention highlight etc.
    - How to show sibling relationships
    - Arrows? Highlighting?
7. Finish prototype
    - Get website working
    - Get graphs visualised
8. Get ANU Qualtrics up - copy the Google forms format to the new system. - &#9745;

### Greta's wish list of changes

9. Entities crashing site
    - Medousa
        Because in the database, Medousa has a geneology "Medusa is part of The Head of Medousa", which isn't an entity. Hence, error.
    - Ouranos
        Same with Medousa. Says is part of "the Genitals of Ouranos" which is not a collective. Inconsistency with undeng of use of "is part of". Should keep it consistent with just collectives.
    - Children of Iphicles and Pyrrha
10. Add sibling (sister/brother) reversal for when two agents have the same parents (e.g. X, Y is son of Z, A)
    - Example: Poseidon Neptune Olympian god, Zeus Olympian god, Hades Underworld god is son of Rhea Titan, Cronos Saturn Titan, father of Zeus
11. Add "is twin of" - &#9745;
12. Add "is older than" - &#9745;
    - Test with Heracles and Iphicles - &#9745;
12. Collectives - Cheiron is mentioned twice in "the Centaurs" - &#9745;
13. "Gives in marriage" geneological data, e.g. X gives in marriage Y [indirect object Z]
    - Also add in reversal -  Y is wife of Z
14. If parent is listed several times in different genealogies, the passage repeats itself (e.g. father in Amphithryon 8182163) - &#9745;
15. Make the links for geneologies more obviously clickable (more like the passages) - &#9745;
    - Just added underlines - &#9745;
16. Fix search function so prioritize names not identifying information
    - Find a better, alternative dropdown selector
    - Modify the search algorithm so it suits the above purpose (prioritize first over second)
    - FIx search so by clicking on the name it redirects to the new page.
18. Address grandparents, and relation to parents etc

**Newfound issues in database**
- Hera Juno Olympian God is listed as Male in entities.csv
- Minos is "child of <Crete - object>" causing errors
- Please make consistent "X is alternative of Y" that all subsequent ties.csv information is re: Y not X. 
    - e.g. ARGEIPHONTES is alternative name for HERMES and Hermes has all the info
    - e.g. POLYPEMON is alternative name for DAMASTES and Polypemon has all the info
    - DagreJS can't do graph alignments
    

## Meeting Agenda

### Research Question in One Sentence:

### What I'm currently working on:

#### Met up with Greta to request changes to the database

* Medousa
    - Because in the database, Medousa has a geneology "Medusa is part of The Head of Medousa", which isn't an entity. Hence, error.
    
* Ouranos
    - Same with Medousa. Says is part of "the Genitals of Ouranos" which is not a collective. Inconsistency with undeng of use of "is part of". Should keep it consistent with just collectives.

* Children of Iphicles and Pyrrha
    - Pyrrha currently not showing up, because Pyrrha has no gender
    - Create my own gender-finding algorithm? Or add Pyrrha's name to the gender database?
    
* Can't do give in marriage because indirect object does not have nodegoat ID in datum.csv
    - Download nodegoat database with this extra column
    
##### Greta's response
- New data given to me today
- "is part of" is not only used with agents and collectives with the new data.
- "entity" anything in entity database is constant for the entity
    - i.e. now "the Head of Medusa" is a part of Head of Medusa
    - For Collectives, added "children of " and "divine father"
    - Collectives also now have gender.
    - Created three different kinds of collectives!!!
        - Collective (Episodic)
        - Collective (misc)
        - Collective (Geneological)
- Siblings
    - Implicit parents
    - Greta to get rid of all GENDER except for Mother and Father.
    - SPOUSE instead of wives/husbands
    - CHILD instead of daughter/
    - USE NODEGOAT ID LEFT-HAND-SIDE FOR TIES OF SIBLINGS
    - Gender is now just on the entity
- SEE SHEET FOR REST
- No geneologial information 
    - "Antiope: an Amazon" - No relationship data for
    - This is because Antiope is an alternative name
    - Leave AKA coming for entity data
    - Add "alternative name for" that are from the tie data
- Genderdata has now been mushed into the entities database

- ***Collective***s:
    - Three different types 
        - Geneological - the entity where the collective is fundamental to the entity
            - the daughters of if female
            - the sons of
            - the children of
            - no line that says gender
            - Collective geneal - children of 
    
    
    

### Upcoming dates to be aware of:
*

### Next step and what's getting in the way:
*

### Other discussion topics


## Action Items for Next Meeting (DD/MM/YYYY):
1. 


