# Meeting 12, 27/03/2020

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

Mid-thesis presentation happened
Was really good
Most questions were about what’s the state of the art at the moment etc.

DH2020 
Website says they’re going to make a decision about them. 
Wouldn’t get permission to travel at the moment as staff, and likely as students when possible. 
Assume that it’s going to be cancelled
Or possibly postponed. 
May not have to reapply after all that again. 

User studies

Just as a research tool
Currently they’re just thinking about it as it currently stands, maybe more useful for research layer

Most of them want all the graph
Could this be resolved / tempered by saying particularly for the first few (e.g. network graph) that would be useful for showing other kinds of relationships in the data. 
e.g. non-hierarchical story, broader network of relationships, person X gives chariot to person Y. 

This is a logical way of looking at relationships, but is this the best way to look at genealogical relationships?

Identifying information
Something that we’re dealing with right now, deal with the consistency. 
Also noticed that identifying information is “son of” and yet mother is never mentioned.
Greta to rethink this
Having more distinctive identifiers about their roles, what happens to them, not immediate relationship

Different names
Need to put all the different name versions in
Greek and Latin names
Greta Rosie and Glenn to work on this

Filter
Good idea actually
Possibly start adding filter

How to use this on the first page
Do this
“Greek mythology can be really complicated, here are some examples of that”
And then have a little box saying “Autochthony” then give a list of people with that attribute.

TODO:

Fix the user errors
Do this

What are my reflections on the user interviews?
- Not possible to do a second round of interviews
- Went down a rabbit hole
- Mitchell Whitelaw’s Generous Interfaces - designed to facilitate rabbit holes. 
- Talk about in thesis as a design goal, and to some extent achieved.

Add grandparents to the filmcards (not grandchildren though)
Could give you another ring of information, and increases the chances of providing something interesting.
Grandparents are more useful than grandchildren
Use as a generous interface idea.
Mention as a design change based on user interviews
Useful based on Homer’s Iliad text

Change textual inconsistency to inconsistency in tradition

What are the deliverables by the end of the thesis
The deliverable is the thesis
Examiner will look at the artefact

The interface and the user interviews are also deliverables.

User studies
Can do a second round entirely online.
Refine user study questions

Arrange a meeting with Ben early next week to talk about building the website - implementation
Send an. Email about the biggest questions I have about the thesis
What best to work on
What kind of software to use? Bespoke? 
Which best to invest time in
HL technical questions about how to architect it
Any code that’s bumming me out and I can’t get it
Specify the specific technical concern.

Greta and Ben take a look through the recommendations from the user interviews (Monday) and send through which ones they think would be easy / important / good to invest time in
As long as you tell a story in this thesis, gather interest then it’s fine


Draft of a thesis
A rough outline a month out and a fairly decent one a month out - to send to both

Greta could be getting a node goat subscription
Then I can download it as needed


Filter through the user interview pros and cons of graphs so far and come up with an overall solution


Greta: overall what we like this to do is for it to become a google map that we can hone in and zoom out as. Far as we want. 

Greta to write brief descriptions to use on the front page

Greta may spring on me some new genealogical categories later on but they won’t be difficult










