# Meeting 6, 25/10/2019

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

## Action Items from previous meeting
1. Update the research question for next week - &#9745;
2. Create the agenda for the next meeting  - &#9745;
3. Watch the Ethics Approval video again - &#9745;
4. Search bar - only show name and alternative names, not subject id and identifying info - &#9745;
    __Not sure what to about this, since this would require some other form of disambiguation?__
    __Not sure if this is a good idea - how do we distinguish between different people with the same name?__
5. Make the word "Library" in italics, everything else in normal font - &#9745;
6. Add "," after Apollodorus word - &#9745;
7. Remove comma after entity name - &#9745;
8. Fix random whitespace in data cards between father and children - &#9745;
9. Import Greta's passages csv file and put in correct URNs - DO THIS FIRST BEFORE 5 & 6 - &#9745;
10. For the ethics approval - &#9745;
    * Create a list of indicate questions & send to Ben and Greta (see above for ideas) - &#9745;
    * Create a questionnaire / survey & send to Ben and Greta (see above for ideas) - &#9745;
    * Create an information sheet & send to Ben and Greta - &#9745;
    * Create a consent form (there are templates for it online) & send to Ben and Greta - &#9745;
    * Go to the drop-in session Wednesday 9th October - &#9745;
    * Ask if need *all* of the list of documents - &#9745;
    * Mention intended target user groups (professors/scholars vs 1st year students)  - &#9745;
    * Ask Greta what the name of the classics class is  - &#9745;
11. Host my website using Github - &#9745;
12. Add Google Analytics to my webpage to see who accesses it (?) - might not work with my adblock - &#9746;
13. COME UP WITH A SIMPLE GRAPHING ALGORITHM - create one from scratch, sugiyama stye for family tree - &#9731;
14. Only show relationships for agents and collectives, not objects etc. - &#9745;
15. Fix error - Agamemnon is father and also husband of Clytaimnestra? nope. - &#9746;

## Meeting Agenda

### Research Question in One Sentence:

__Draft derivation of the title__: How can we analyse and visualise complex familial relationships in greek mythology?

* How can we display the data such that they highlight the complexities of different relationships within Greek Mythology?

* How can we analyse the data such that the most meaningful connections are displayed?

* How can we create a useful research tool to assist those with experience in the digital humanities?

* How can we design an intuitive and interesting interface to inspire those wanting to learn more about Greek Mythology?

### What I'm currently working on:

#### Submitted the application for DH2020 

* As of Tuesday last week.
* Not sure when or whether we'd hear back re: successful or declined
* DH2020 will be hosted in Ottawa July 2020 - after the thesis has been submitted
* Applied to present both a Short Presentation (10 mins, eligible for some award idk) and a Poster


#### A live website link for the MANTO project:

npm run deploy

Located at: ___https://yayalu.github.io/greekgraphs/#/___

#### Ethics approval underway

Have submitted the signed form to the ethics department. Received a reply on Thurs 24th October (yesterday).

Comments were as follows:

"
The chair considers this application incomplete. It is not acceptable to
just write “see information sheet/consent form” or “see above”
within the protocol. The protocol must contain clear explanations for all
questions and align these with what is in the information sheet and
consent forms. The project description and methodology sections should
clearly describe all aspects of the project, including recruitment (who is
doing the recruitment, how will perceived coercion be minimised if it’s
in class), what participation involves and how long it will take, and any
potential risks. The protocol must be a complete document in itself that
gives a full description of the key ethical aspects of the project. Your
protocol has been set back to draft. Please make the required changes and
re-submit. - __Yaya will fix__

Some other observations of the current submission:

•       The plan to implement a survey using an ANU class is likely to need
Planning and Performance Measurement approval. Please check.
``` PPM. Maybe advertise it on the course website and student facebook pages etc. and ask people to participate. Just "happen" to have a tutorial on it".
Advertise it on Facebook and university sites.
```

•       Please elaborate on the expertise of the investigators, specifying
their qualifications and their specific methodological experience

```
Xp in cross-disciplinary research which involves user stories, ARIES & ANU  approved.

Send Ben an email to send list of qualifications / ARIES approved items.
Then get the forwarded email from Greta.
```

•       What does “will find other willing participants” entail? Who might
be targeted to increase numbers, how will they be approached and will they
differ in characteristics to your intended groups? - __Yaya will fix__

•       You have ticked that the research will be conducted in Australia, but
your target group is described as from “around the globe.” There is no
description of how you will recruit the Greek scholars for the interviews
and where they will be located. How will you identify scholars, what will
be the method of approach, will there be any follow-up if there is no
response to initial contact? - __Yaya will fix, she means the research will be conducted from Australia, but other researchers from around the globe will be contacted remotely from Australia__

``` 
Using Greta's network of 
Scholars and students from within Australia.
Ask about the practicalities.
"Approach these people from different universities and students in Australia, and it has international reach" - is that okay?

Or... just answer the question in the email

Potentially go to the drop-in session

```

•       Why is a potentially insecure method (Google forms) involving multiple
downloads and uploads being used instead of the ANU Qualtrics platform?
Particularly as responses may be fully identifiable, this seems an
unnecessary risk to confidentiality. As none of the questions regarding
risks and confidentiality have been answered, you have not provided any
explanation of choices and how things will be adequately managed. - __Couldn't get ANU Qualtrics working, and couldn't get a working subscription activated__

```
I'll try it again 
Check if all users need to have anu account - or whether can just do an open survey
If it's equally usable from a user's perspective then use it

is there an excel / microsoft office / does Office 365 have a survey tool
```

•        Participants must be able to independently access a summary of
results without the need to track down a thesis or publication. Please
include a link to a Dropbox or website on the information sheet where
participants can access findings. - __How can I do this without having even obtained the results yet?__

``` 
Isn't dropbox an external platform?

Put at the end of the form

1. Link to info sheet stored on outlook, that is on the first page
2. Overall satisfaction. All quantifiable / summaries of the results will be available. Put up raw numbers.
3. "How satisfied were you with the overall functionality of the website?"

"A summary of the results will be provided at this link"
When finiished "thanks for participating. Here's a link to manto.com etc. where we will put the results up when we're ready"

Results will be on the website from X date onwards.

```


I will send this form in once I finish writing up all the relevant information.

#### Graphing algorithm

* Have outlined some ideas for the graphs
	* Drawn up some wireframes / interaction diagrams
	* Done some general brainstorming for the data structures
	* Use some existing graphics frameworks compatible with ReactJS
		* react-konva
		* KonvaJS
		* https://konvajs.org/docs/react/
	* Graphics drawing process:
		* Start with simple depth=1 family tree diagram
		* Then move towards depth=2 (grandparents, cousins, grandchildren)
		* Then link complex relationships (incest)
		* __What depth of relationship is preferable for the final product?__
	* Relationship linkages in the graph:
		* Start with simple static relationships
		* Then move towards an highlighting the unusual relationships
		* Then hover effects of unusual relationships
		* Then create a bubble describing the unusual relationship and its meaning
	* Create an unusual relationship modal popup:
		* Start with creating the design of the modal
		* Link the clicked bubble (above) with the modal so the relevant unusual relationship page comes up
		* Show the list of all relationships that are of this unusual type
	* Determine the best data structure format:
		* Create a JSON parser that finds all relevant information
		* Add usual / unusual attribute to the item
		* Recurse to depth=2 (or whatever depth is preferred for the final graph)
		* Highlight those relationships as either usual / unusual.
		* DAG generation - write in another language first and then translate over?
        
``` 
Library of graph algorithms to use - use an existing one
Node: item
Edges: link 


Graph layer  - use graph library to do data structure stuff, so can get analysis stuff for free. JS graph library.
Use neighbourhood to do zoom in stuff, then allow to rerender
Not an issue because only a few thousand, not a few billion

Ben to help with an example

Visualisation layer - create my own. take graph as input + method and draw on React.JS

```


### Upcoming dates to be aware of:

None as far as I'm aware.

### Next step and what's getting in the way:

* Continuing with the graphing algorithm stuff
	* Determine node placement on stage - how to situate the nodes on the screen esp. if there are multiple
	* Determine how to centralise the nodes, central gravitational point so all the nodes are balanced
	* Something like what d3.js does but from scratch(?)
	* Sugiyama style?

### Other discussion topics

None as far as I'm aware.


## Action Items for Next Meeting (22/11/2019):
1. Get rid of "entity" - change to "Search by name"
2. Leave in name and identifying information and get rid of number - and only search the name column not identifying information
3. Find a good react dropdown library that allows for style and embedded objects in search optijons
4. Set up Google Analytics for the website - it's already gotten X number of views from around the world - good for data
5. By next meeting, pick a graphing library / graphing infrastructure, and experiment with it.
    - GraphLib, no drawing, algos written in
6. Add MANTO ID under the "Also known as" - "MANTO ID: 8xxxx"
7. Fix width on page with cards
8. Zeus children -
    - In alphabetical order
    - All parts in alphabetical order
9. Collectives - "Offspring of" (for some collectives only)
    - Very complex, will take some time. See the paper for more information.
10. Clean up the code so can do the collectives thing, and not all code is in on the one page.
11. Ethics approval updates



by 1st December (Ben and Greta away in December)
Have a oslid plan, finish the prototype
Start scholar user testing in Jan
Do student user testing in start of Sem 1 Feb


