# Meeting 8, 10/01/2020

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

## Action Items from previous meeting (Meeting 7)

### General updates (based on Meeting 7)
1. Send email to Greta about the above errors - &#9745;
2. Send in ethics approval supporting documents - &#9745;
    - Scan in signed document - &#9745;
    - Create the necessary PDF - &#9745;
    - Send the finalised PDF to the ethis committee (respond to email) - &#9745;
    - Receive response from ethics committee - &#9745;
    - Officially receive ethics approval - &#9745; ```YES, FINALLY!!!```
4. Graphing algorithm
    - Check if GraphLib addresses self-referential nodes (+ duplicate nodes) - &#9745; ```No they do not, will need to do this manually ```
5. Graph visualisation - &#9745;
    - Use existing force-directed layouts first - &#9745;
    - If this works then move towards bespoke visualisation tool - &#9746;
6. Design how to show the different relationships - &#9745;
    - Incestuous relationship highlight vs contention highlight etc. - &#9745;
    - How to show sibling relationships - &#9745; ``` Can make the connection directional but remove the arrow at the end to simulate bi-directionality```
    - Arrows? Highlighting? - &#9745;
7. Get ANU Qualtrics up - copy the Google forms format to the new system. - &#9745;

### Greta's wish list of changes (from Meeting 7)

10. Add sibling (sister/brother) reversal for when two agents have the same parents (e.g. X, Y is son of Z, A) - &#9745; ```Currently inefficient version, will use the nodegoat ID to determine linkeages in future```
    - Example: Poseidon Neptune Olympian god, Zeus Olympian god, Hades Underworld god is son of Rhea Titan, Cronos Saturn Titan, father of Zeus
11. Add "is twin of" - &#9745;
12. Add "is older than" - &#9745;
    - Test with Heracles and Iphicles - &#9745;
12. Collectives - Cheiron is mentioned twice in "the Centaurs" - &#9745;
13. "Gives in marriage" geneological data, e.g. X gives in marriage Y [indirect object Z] - &#9745;
    - Also add in reversal -  Y is wife of Z - &#9745;
14. If parent is listed several times in different genealogies, the passage repeats itself (e.g. father in Amphithryon 8182163) - &#9745;
15. Make the links for geneologies more obviously clickable (more like the passages) - &#9745;
    - Just added underlines - &#9745;
16. Fix search function so prioritize names not identifying information - &#9746; ```Alot more complicated than originally intended to implement. Not highest priority at the moment.```
    - Find a better, alternative dropdown selector - &#9746;
    - Modify the search algorithm so it suits the above purpose (prioritize first over second) - &#9746;
    - FIx search so by clicking on the name it redirects to the new page. - &#9746;
18. Address grandparents, and relation to parents etc - &#9746; ```??? Can't remember what this is about```

### Greta's requested changes (from our separate meeting in early December)

19. Import all of Greta's new data - &#9745;
20. Remove all passage information except for mother, father, spouse, and member of - &#9745;
21. Add passage info for is alternative name for - &#9745;
22. Add autochthony data in datacard (aka. "... OR autocthony") - &#9745;
23. Add parthenogensis data in datacard (aka. "... OR parthenogenesis by <name>) - &#9745;
24. Including other parents in the lists of children (no passage references)- &#9745;
25. Remove the multiple instances of other parents in children section and combine them as alternatives (aka. make "<child> - with <x> OR <y>) - &#9745;
26. Compensate for multiple parent IDs as well as multiple children of the same parent - &#9745;
26. Remove "no relationship data available"- &#9745;
27. Cross-reference alternative names in the data card pages - do "is alternative name for" in datacard instead of leaving it blank. - &#9745; ```See Newfound issues in database section```
28. Remove all relationship data for episodic collectives - &#9745;
29. Collectives - genealogical (e.g. Danaids and Dioscouroi):
    - Add subheading - "Daughters/sons of" - &#9745;
    - Remove all other genealogical informationbut have no other relationship information  - &#9745;
    - Address multiple parents (+alternatives) - &#9731; ```Having trouble with this because the genealogy of the Danaids and the Dioscouroi aren't in the ties.csv, nor the entities.csv```
    - Add divine father to collective subheading. - &#9746;
    - Keep the parent information in order - &#9746; 
30. Collectives - episodic (e.g. the Argonauts):
    - Same as genealogical but no subheading, just a list of members - &#9745;
31. Collectives - miscellaneous (e.g. Centaurs and Sirens):
    - Consider that all genelogical data here is derived from the ties database, not the entity database. e.g. "the Sirens is child of <x>" in ties.csv - &#9745;
    - Add members of collectives and genealogical data to this page - &#9745;
32. Make member names clearly clickable - &#9745;
33. Subgroups - collectives of collectives - &#9746; ```Not sure what this was about - ask Greta```
34. In the graph, make the collective show up as a high-level node, and only show the members when the collective page is clicked. - &#9745;
35. Remove gender for collectives, keep only for agents - &#9745;

## Meeting Agenda

### Research Question in One Sentence:
``` No updates from last meeting```

### What I'm currently working on:

#### Met up with Greta to request changes to the database.
See above - "Greta's requested changes based on meeting earlier in December"

#### Finally got ethics approval to conduct the user tests!
Got the email in late November, and official finalised approved *yesterday*.

#### Yaya's personally-identified changes (have completed / not sure of how to progress )
The following changes were identified by me (not part of the agenda or list of requested changes from Greta). Up for discussion.


``` Currently not in square structure, only looks like a relational diagram at the moment. First point of critique - needs to look like a genealogical chart, like a traditional family tree. 
And then only differ from that traditional family tree where those are unusual relationships.
It is quite lkely that sticking to traditional family tree is the best approach, but we can't pre-empt these answers to the question (that's what a user study is for). 
```

```Bespoke? 
Is the current approach okay even for a first study? 
Greta has trouble understanding the diagram

Document this stage of the project, 
Prototype - as a result of this informal testing, and upon discussion with Ben and Greta, it was clear that we had to change it so it had more flexibility with layout of data, etc.

Create a new branch to work on a bespoke
Graphing layout algorithm
```


__Nodes__

* Make the graph nodes clickable - redirect to the associated pages - &#9745;

__Edges__

* How to distinguish between different types of edges in graph form?
    - Distinguishing autochthony vs correct birth
    - Parent 1 vs Parent 2
    - Sibling vs partner edges
* Make the edges clickable, and reveal the information on the bottom of the page - &#9745;
    - Eventually progress to modal popups
* Make the links in the edges info page direct to their respective links (passages and disputed IDs)
    - Links currently working but need to fix "dispute" style staticness. Currently just cheap solution - refreshing the page - but not user-friendly - &#9731;
* Add superficial undirected edges to graphs for siblings and marriage - &#9745;
* Add visualisations for incest in the graph
    - Code up the necessary info chart for this
* Add visualisations for parthenogenesis in the graph
    - Code up the necessary info chart for this
* Add visualisations for autochthony in the graph
    - Code up the necessary info chart for this
* Add dispute expressed to graph
    - Code up the necessary info chart for this
    
    ``` Dispute: 
    When an author explicitly expresses dispute.
    We use that field "dispute expressed, uncertainty". 
    So only rely on when an author explicitly expresses dispute. Not if e.g. has 2 fathers.
    
    Disputed relationship etc => change to "disputed tradition"
    
    ```
    
__Depth search__

* Add depth search input to graph 
   - Add depth search functionality with set values for testing purposes - &#9745;
   - Add depth search input field in interface
   - Deal with depth-search entity node repeats
* What to do about the edge labels when depth > 1 - mother", "father", "sibling" etc?

__Overall design considerations / restrictions__

* Convert dynamic relationship-finding algorithm to static - create a JSON with all relationships for all entities and call that file instead of calling updateComponent each time (significantly optimizes the depth search for the graph). - &#9745;
* Digitize the visualisation strategies (currently in paper format) - autochthony, parthenogenesis, dispute expressed, members, etc.
* How to fit the whole graph's worth in one page, especially seeing how long/wide Zeus' genealogy chart is.
* Make graph interactible and scrollable - &#9745;
* Current graph does not allow for double connections. e.g. Hera is both sibling and wife of Zeus. Graphlib automatically detects and removes duplicates.
    - Try to find a way around this - either have two edges to Hera, or one red edge to Hera that shows "unusual relationship"
    - In the backend - allow for some way to show unusual doubled relationships - maybe a duplicate detector in graphlib?
    * Draw up the different info charts for the unusual relationships + dispute expressed - &#9731;
* Add legend to graph - &#9745;
* How to link the "other parent" to the main node? No connection? Minor connection?

__General further research__

* Research more graphing algorithms 
    
#### Newfound issues in database

``` Send Greta these issues ```

* Hera Juno Olympian God is listed as Male in entities.csv
* Minos is "child of <Crete - object>" causing errors
* Inconsistency in "X is alternative of Y" - make it so that all subsequent ties.csv information is re: Y not X. 
        - e.g. ARGEIPHONTES is alternative name for HERMES and Hermes has all the info
        - e.g. POLYPEMON is alternative name for DAMASTES and Polypemon has all the info
* DagreJS can't do graph alignments
* Collective (genealogical) no mention of genealogy in ties.csv or entities.csv - where to infer the subheadings?
        - e.g. Dioscouroi - "The sons of Leda and Tyndareus OR Zeus" but Dioscouroi has no genealogical data in ties.csv to infer this.

### Upcoming dates to be aware of:
Uni starts in Feb, not sure what the dates for the mid-semester presentation are yet. Contacted Jochen Renz in November but no response yet.

```Enrol in the course lol```

### Next step and what's getting in the way:

* Organising a user research session with Greta's colleagues - probably early February? Will give me time to fix the rest of the bugs in the system.
``` Only commitment - week 6 tutorial prototype, possibly end of March```
``` Determine how to progress with interviews based on progress in early February ```
``` If necessary, just ask scholars to look at filecards, let them know that the visualisations are incomplete. General approach? How useful for teaching purposes? Ask for feedback. And then treat the second round of user interviews as an assessment of a more complete pathway.```

* Considering research 
    - what kind of research is required for honours theses, especially when the project also involves coding?
    - what kind of research should I be conducting and writing about given this is both a digital humanities and computer science project? Consideration of external examiners' interests.
``` 
Depends on the research question 
- Understanding the data and what the visualisation is - not as important to have extensive research noted
- Think about what the question is and how the study will answer it.
- Set aside half an hour a week to skim a bunch of new papers and keep my head in the game
- Keep up to date with research summary
```
    
* Graph visualisation and layout - can't modify the graph layout algorithm so the nodes aren't properly aligned (does not look like a genealogical chart)
    - Can't layout sibling vs parent edges

### Other discussion topics

#### GEDCOM data representation technique
Worth considering in future?
Thesis - Thought would talk about many different types of graphing algorithms, and pros and cons for each, but say that for the purposes of an MVP for user research, the current strategy of using graphlib and dagrejs works well enough. 

``` Do research on this ```

#### DH2020 review feedback!!!
Great feedback from DH2020 review committee!
See emailed document for pros and cons list from each reviewer.
``` Apparently they were really great reviews!!! ```

``` Plan  $$$$ 
Consider student scholarships for DH2020
Consider university scholarships for honours students
```

**What to do?**
Preferably send a response to the review committee. Due date: 15th January.

``` Send draft response to Greta to check ```

#### Any other issues up for discussion?

## Action Items for Next Meeting (23/01/2020):
1. Fix search function so prioritize names not identifying information - &#9746;
   - Find a better, alternative dropdown selector - &#9746;
   - Modify the search algorithm so it suits the above purpose (prioritize first over second) - &#9746;
   - FIx search so by clicking on the name it redirects to the new page. - &#9746;


