# Meeting 13, DD/MM/YYYY

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

## Action Items from previous meeting

* Fix identifying information inconsistencies, and provide more distinctive identifiers for each.
* Add different typs of names - Greek and Latin. Greta, Rosie and Glenn to work on this.
* Add a simple filter for information 
* Add an introductory part on the first page. 
    * “Greek mythology can be really complicated, here are some examples of that”
    And then have a little box saying “Autochthony” then give a list of people with that attribute.
    * Greta to write this
* Add grandparents to the file cards
* Add Scaife Viewer references to twin relationships
* Change "textual inconsistency" to "inconsistency in tradition"
* Fix the user errors from the website (blank pages)
    * Decided not to fix this until we have a working graphing prototype up
* Research and write up a bit more on Mitchell Whitelaw's Generous Interfaces - and their influence on rabbit holes
* Redefine user study questions for the final round of user interviews.
* Set up a meeting with Ben to discuss building the website
    * Biggest questions I have about the thesis
    * What best to work on
    * What kind of software to use? Bespoke?
    * Which part is best to invest time in 
    * HL technical questions about architecture
    * Any code that's bumming me out and I can't get it
    * Specify technical concerns
* Have a rough outline by the start of May (May 1st), send to Ben & Greta
* Have a rough thesis draft out by middle/end of May, send to Ben & Greta
* Collate all the literature reviews
* Greta to send me some new genealogical categories to account for in the future
* Read through and incorporate Greta's summary of user interview responses
* Get, read, and respond to Greta's document of unusual births
* Organise a session with Greta to discuss unusual births and collectives
* Add in the icons recommended by the team for the unusual births
* Import all of Greta's new nodegoat data



## Meeting Agenda

### Debrief from last meeting

* Most participants wanted a lot of graphs, however we decided that the first few graphs (networks and non-hierarchy) might be better suited for other types of relationships, not genealogical
* The ideal solution according to Greta is something that we can hone in and zoom out as far as we want - like a google maps for genealogy
* Fix some identifying information inconsistencies, with more distinctive identifiers. Greta will work on this.
* Most participants wanted a filter for the information, based on distinctive things like search for parthenogenesis etc.
* May not have the time for a second round of user interviews. But could maybe organiise something online - as long as we redefine our user study questions.
* Most users went down a rabbit hole 
* Clarified that the thesis is the final deliverable, and the interface and the user interviews are also deliverables. As long as you tell the story about this thesis, and gather interest, then it's fien!
* Ben is keen to go over a rough draft, Greta is happy to read over things whenever possible! Especially with things e.g. the introduction and literature review things
* Greta will possibly get a nodegoat subscription so that I can get access and download the database whenever needed




### Research Question in One Sentence:

### What I'm currently working on:
*

### Upcoming dates to be aware of:

#### DH2020
Conference cancelled, but maybe virtual? See email

### Next step and what's getting in the way:
*

### Other discussion topics


## Action Items for Next Meeting (DD/MM/YYYY):
1. 


