# Meeting 7, 22/11/2019

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

## Action Items from previous meeting

1. Simplistic aesthetic changes:
    * Add MANTO ID under the "Also known as" - "MANTO ID: 8xxxx" - &#9745;
    * Fix width on page with cards - &#9745;
    * All lists in alphabetical order - &#9745;
2. Modify drop-down and search function: - &#9731;
    * Get rid of "entity" - change to "Search by name" - &#9745;
    * Leave in name and identifying information and get rid of number - and only search the name column not identifying information - &#9745;
    * Find a good react dropdown library that allows for style and embedded objects in search options - &#9731;
3. Set up Google Analytics for the website - it's already gotten X number of views from around the world - good for data - &#9731; - leave out
4. By next meeting, pick a graphing library / graphing infrastructure, and experiment with it.- &#9731;
    - GraphLib, no drawing, algos written in - &#9731;
5. Collectives - "Offspring of" (for some collectives only) - &#9731;
    - Very complex, will take some time. See the paper for more information. - &#9745;
    - Clean up the code so can do the collectives thing, and not all code is in on the one page. - &#9745;
6. Ethics approval updates - &#9745;
7. Import Greta's new files - &#9745;


## Meeting Agenda

### What I'm currently working on:

#### Graphing Algorithm
* The graphing algorithm, currently using GraphLib and trying to understand it. 
* Looking at graph visualisation mechanisms - CanvaJS? Gravity / centralisation physics? - ``` force-directed at first, then create different layout algorithm later```
* Recursive depth search for different levels of depth?
* What about recursive e.g. depth 3 - self-referential? How to remove that?
``` Research GraphLib algorithms - is it self-referential? ```
``` Use off the shelf stuff where I can ```
* How to make directed ? Sibings vs partners
``` Research this. Draft up a design for the different kinds of relationships. What about double relationships? ```

#### Ethics Approval
* Sent information in, with an updated protocol and a list of answers to the chair's questions in an email. Will hopefully receive confirmation by January :(

### Upcoming dates to be aware of:

Ben and Greta away in December).
``` Meeting early mid January - Ben and Greta back in the 3rd January I'll organise this. ```

#### By the end of this meeting:
* Discuss what the deadlines will be in the coming months
* Go through the graphing mechanisms and see what can be improved
* Find a good graph visualisation tool

#### From December 1st to January 1st (while Ben and Greta are away)
1. Finish the prototype
2. Baseline *some* visualisation working.
3. Hopefully have ethics approval by then

#### From January 1st to XX/XX
1. Start scholar user testing in Jan
2. Do student user testing in start of Sem 1 Feb
3. Start writing parts of my thesis - write an introduction, do some external research, read some materials about geneology

### Next step and what's getting in the way:

#### Search function issues
``` Send to Greta ```
``` Greta will send me a list of aesthetic requests - "wish list" ```
``` Greta will send final lot of data in end of December ```

Already briefly modified the search text options (removed the manto ID and put back in the identifying information). However the search is less efficient now.
e.g. "Heracles" and "Zeus" will result in the actual intended hero/god showing up halfway down the page. 
This is due to the matching algorithm in the search - will see if I can modify that.

#### Gender database is missing entity
Danaos, father of the Danaids, is missing gender
None of the sons of Aigyptos have gender

#### Encoding "Daughters of Danaus"
Where do I obtain this information from?
Maybe add an extra coloumn to entities.csv that describes their alternative descriptions rather than just alternative names. Use this to get the info underneath MANTO ID? 
(See paper)

#### Duplications: Sons of Aigyptos
Each son in database is both "is part of" Sons of Aigyptos and "is son of" Aigyptos. Don't need both, since it means the page "Aigyptos" has all the sons + "Sons of Aigyptos" listed as offspring. This should be fixed on the Nodegoat end.

#### "Offspring of"
Not sure what to do here. Is Mother and Father problematic?


### Other discussion topics

``` Week 6 Classics Students course in Semester 1 - they're doing mid-semester test that only takes an hour, and have the remaining hour (2nd hour) as an introduction to the project and invite people to give feedback. Run it like an introduction, voluntary. Coersion minimized.```

## Action Items for Next Meeting (DD/MM/YYYY):

### General updates (based on meeting)
1. Send email to Greta about the above errors
2. Send in ethics approval supporting documents
    - Scan in signed document
    - Create the necessary PDF
    - Send the finalised PDF to the ethis committee (respond to email)
4. Graphing algorithm
    - Check if GraphLib addresses self-referential nodes (+ duplicate nodes)
5. Graph visualisation
    - Use existing force-directed layouts first
    - If this works then move towards bespoke visualisation tool
6. Design how to show the different relationships
    - Incestuous relationship highlight vs contention highlight etc.
    - How to show sibling relationships
    - Arrows? Highlighting?
7. Finish prototype
    - Get website working
    - Get graphs visualised
8. Get ANU Qualtrics up - copy the Google forms format to the new system.

### Greta's wish list of changes

9. Entities crashing site
    - Medousa
    - Ouranos
    - Children of Iphicles and Pyrrha
10. Add sibling (sister/brother) reversal for when two agents have the same parents (e.g. X, Y is son of Z, A)
11. Add "is twin of"
12. Collectives - Cheiron is mentioned twice in "the Centaurs"
13. "Gives in marriage" geneological data, e.g. X gives in marriage Y [indirect object Z]
    - Also add in reversal -  Y is wife of Z
14. If parent is listed several times in different genealogies, the passage repeats itself (e.g. father in Amphithryon 8182163)
15. Make the links for geneologies more obviously clickable (more like the passages)
16. Fix search function so prioritize names not identifying information
    - Find a better, alternative dropdown selector
    - Modify the search algorithm so it suits the above purpose (prioritize first over second)
17. FIx search so by clicking on the name it redirects to the new page.

    
    


