# Meeting 5, 27/09/2019

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

## Action Items from previous meeting
1. Talk to Perlin about UK situation - workload over there - &#9746;
2. Do a simple logo based on Greta's labyrinth - &#9745;
3. Work on lightning presentation - &#9745;
4. Conduct ethics approval, come up with draft preliminary questions to bring up in this meeting - &#9731;
    * Prelim questions - &#9731;
    * Go to the drop in - &#9746;
5. Iron out research questions for next meeting, narrow them out a bit more (low priority) - &#9746;
6. List all alternative names under the main name
``` <Name>, <Name> ``` - &#9745;
7. Link to both Scaife texts (Greek & English) side by side - &#9745;
8. Fix duplicate entries issue - &#9745;
9. Do disambiguation page (also based on additional names) - &#9745;
10. Change "children" to "child" if there is only one - &#9745;
11. Change "wives/husbands" to "husband" or "wife" depending on gender - &#9745;
    * Change "husband" to "husbands" if multiple and same for wife and wives - &#9745;
12. Import ReactJS pluralisation interface  (JS Pluralize) - &#9745;
13. Write agenda for next meeting - &#9745;
14. Get Github access for Greta - &#9746;
15. Create a markdown file that automatically runs the data & entity parsers in the data folder, then "npm start" - &#9731;
16. Add a react router - &#9745;
17. Do a preliminary rendering of the graphs with some prototypes - &#9731;
18. Add in Greta's updated gender file - &#9745;
19. Design the whole website in Sketch 

## Meeting Agenda

### Recent Progress

#### Lightning Talks
* Great success! Lots of people loved our project.
* Presentation was pretty engaging, had a lot of people asking questions, received a lot of compliments.
* One audience member recommended the book "One hundred years of solitude" for dealing with anomalies and inconsistencies in names.

### Research Question in One Sentence:
Have not had time to make updates to the previous version.

``` Next week ```

### What I'm currently working on:

#### Disambiguation search page
Have completed the search function on the website. Have already uploaded it to github.
Was stuck on it for more than a week - my code was buggy and it took a while to debug
Just managed to complete it.


#### Ethics approval in ARIES
* Have created a new account in the ANU Ethics Approval platform ARIES.
* Will plan on watching the Ethics Approval video
* Have a copy of the ethics approval template, will go through the questions.

__Requirements:__
* List of indicative questions                            Y/N
* Copy of questionnaire / survey                Y/N 
* Invitation or introductory letter/s                Y/__N__ 
* Publicity material (posters etc.)                Y/__N__ 
* Information sheet                        Y/N 
* Consent form                                    Y/N 
* External approval documentation                Y/__N__ 
* Research visa (if applicable)                Y/__N__ 
* Other (specify below)                    Y/__N__ 

Need signatures from Ben or Greta once completed

*** Jochen has said that depending on the type of project, it might not require ethics approval? ***

__Suggestions for users:__

Qualitative 
1. Greta - client
2. Other researchers in the humanities - ANU Greek Mythology professors? ``` Greta has a colleague in the US```
3. Interested students with some background in the field - Semester 1 2020 Greek Mythology class
4. General population with no experience in greek mythology - public?

``` Differentiate interested students from general public
1st year greek mythology classics course is a core course for the classics students, but elective to everyone else. 
Have question in questionnaire to distinguish them
Have you had experience in greek mythology yes/no. If yes => interested. If no => general population.
```

5. Also possibly the advanced students in classics
6. Also Greta's data collection group

```Maybe the scholars vs students is broad enough```

__Question types:__


Semi-strutured interview, indicative questions, "what did you like about it"
Expectations (before): ``` Don't do this! Only do post```
* Expectations of the interface
* Expectations for what they will learn
* Expectations for simplicit
``` What is your "expectation" vs "experience"```

```Straightforward, intuitive interface for simply accessing information```
``` Graphically show the unusual nature /strangeness of greek mythology```



Interface:
* Task, navigating from one page to the other (Want to find the mother of certain entity, see if they can find it). 
* Do they click anything wrong? Is it intuitive?

Questionnaire (after):
* Likert scales with comments?
* Qualitiative analysis / interviews?
* Did this change your understanding of greek mythology?
* Perception of what could be done on an online platform?
* Perception of graphical geneological interfaces?

Greta recommends for post-questions:
* What were you using this for?
* What did you learn?
* How did this change / enhance your understanding of Greek Mythology?

__Focus on the idea of "IMPACT"__ 
"I DID THIS, I DID THAT, THIS CHANGED THIS"

``` Questions about discovery. What did you discover? ```

``` I need to determine what the type of user and the purpose of the experiment would be ```

``` Was there something else that happened / unexpected bonus / unintended things / unanticipated ```

__FIND OUT WHAT THE GOAL IS BEFORE COMING UP WITH THE QUESTIONS
The goal can be broad, e.g. "exploring"__

``` Remembering that "search" is for people who already know sort of what they're looking for. Maybe produce something that provides people with different things? ```

Design a 10 minute tutorial that has a group of questions for the Year 1 classics class. Give them tasks. Use that as the basis for their own exploration.
"Find the grandfather of X" 

How many users would I want? How many different types of users is feasible?
A couple of big interviews in each category? Or lots of small, quick interviews in every category?
Incentive?


__Consider Google Analytics__

See if I can create any analytics platforms - how many people have logged on? 
***Can host on Github pages.***
Free hosting. 

### Upcoming dates to be aware of:

#### Drop in session for the ethics approval 
Just missed the drop-in session for September (it is the second Wednesday of every month).
Wednesday after next, 9th October, before our next meeting.
Plan to complete a draft version of the ethics documents by then and show them in the drop-in session.

``` Semi-structured interviews, online, kind of like the SELTs ```

``` Ask them if need all the documents ```

### Next step and what's getting in the way:

#### Overall website design
Noticed there is not a design for the whole website. Am considering drawing something up quickly in Sketch.

``` More like a portal, simple and straightforward is better. Remembering this will be a part of a bigger series of projects from Greta ```

#### Decide which graphing algorithm I want to use

Most of these are good general graphing options, but not many allow middle links between two nodes, e.g. in geneological tree style. 
Did not have time to finish a fully-working prototype

Sugiyama style algorithm for family tree

__React-Dagre-D3__

https://dagrejs.github.io/project/dagre-d3/latest/demo/clusters.html

http://ankursundara.com/react-dagre-d3/

Pros:
* Based on the prototyping, maybe conduct some analysis.
* Trying react-dagre-d3 - a d3-based graphing tool designed for DAGs built on ReactJS.
* Has different designs for the graph edges - good for describing different types of relationships

Cons:
* Don't have middle links between two nodes

__Dagre-D3 or Dagre__

Uses type graphlib

* https://github.com/dagrejs/dagre-d3
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44038221/d3-js-family-chart
* https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31245751/how-do-you-create-a-family-tree-in-d3-js

*If can get this to work, this is our best option*

__dTree__

https://github.com/ErikGartner/dTree
Uses d3JS
Demo: https://treehouse.gartner.io/ErikGartner/58e58be650453b6d49d7

Pros: 
* Looks like a good family tree structure

Cons:
* Doesn't allow grandparent relationships (upwards hierarchy)
* Doesn't allow multiple spouses

__react-native-d3-tree-graph__

Pros:
* Has the middle-links between two nodes

Cons:
* Not sure if it's easily-modifiable
* Designed for react-native. Not sure if works for webpages

*If can get this to work, this is our second-best option*

__Cytoscape__

Pros: 
* Canvas-based, visually appealing

Cons: 
* Doesn't allow for middle-links between nodes

__Gephi__

Pros: 
* Canvas-based, visually appealing

Cons:
* Doesn't allow for middle-links between nodes

__SigmaJS__

Cons:
* Doesn't allow for middle-links between nodes


__VisJS__

Pros:
* A good visualisation tool, has a lot of community support

Cons:
* Closest thing to our geneology chart is "network"
* Can't do genealogy links (middle links between nodes), see: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39096205/family-chart-with-horizontal-and-vertical-line-connectors-using-vis-js


__After consideration.......__
Honestly I feel like I should just create my own graphing algorithms. No current graphing algorithms are able to recreate the complexities of these relationships, or are flexible enough to modify for these. 
As such, I did not generate a prototype. I will try to come up with a graphing algorithm - do some research - before the next meeting.


### Other discussion topics

#### Goal for this project
Discussion with Jochen Renz during the last Honours Seminar. Discussed the possibility of doing a PhD at the ANU, hopefully getting a PhD Scholarship.
Apparently requires a First Class Honours, with a high GPA and publications.
Considered the possibility of publishing my project in a research conference next year:
* DHA (aaDH), around October 2020. Call for papers due around March 2020.
* DH2020 conference in North America, July 22-24 2020
The plan is to write up a paper in Sem 1, have it submitted and published BEFORE the honours is finished, so can use in the application for a PhD
Deadlines for PhD applications - one in April (for sem 2 2020), one in August (for sem 1 2021)

``` Have approval to do this! :D ```

``` Consider UK thing ```

## Action Items for Next Meeting (25/10/2019):
1. Update the research question for next week
2. Create the agenda for the next meeting
3. Watch the Ethics Approval video again
4. Search bar - only show name and alternative names, not subject id and identifying info
5. Make the word "Library" in italics, everything else in normal font
6. Add "," after Apollodorus word
7. Remove comma after entity name
8. Fix random whitespace in data cards between father and children
9. Import Greta's passages csv file and put in correct URNs
10. For the ethics approval
    * Create a list of indicate questions & send to Ben and Greta (see above for ideas)
    * Create a questionnaire / survey & send to Ben and Greta (see above for ideas)
    * Create an information sheet & send to Ben and Greta
    * Create a consent form (there are templates for it online) & send to Ben and Greta
    * Go to the drop-in session Wednesday 9th October
            * Ask if need *all* of the list of documents
    * Mention intended target user groups (professors/scholars vs 1st year students)
    * Ask Greta what the name of the classics class is
11. Host my website using Github
12. Add Google Analytics to my webpage to see who accesses it (?) - might not work with my adblock
13. COME UP WITH A SIMPLE GRAPHING ALGORITHM - create one from scratch, sugiyama stye for family tree

