# Meeting 11, 13/03/2020

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
`All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks`

## Action Items from previous meeting

### Scholar interviews

1. Update the script for the user interviews - &#9745;
2. Send out the interview invitations email and organise interview times - &#9745;
3. Set up a recording system for the user interviews - &#9745;
4. Compile the user interview data once all the interviews are finished

### Graph prototypes website

1. Add labels to the collapsible graph page - &#9746;
2. Add MANTO logo to the graph pages - &#9745;

### DH2020

1. Registration for the event
2. Add in updated abstract - &#9745;
3. Apply for travel scholarship
4. Consider poster design
5. Determine all potential costs

### Mid-thesis presentation

1. Create and practise presentation speech - &#9746;
2. Create slides and submit to Jochen - &#9746;

## Meeting Agenda

### Research Question in One Sentence:

Research questions for user interviews:

1. How can we visualise and display the complexities of greek mythical data in an intuitive manner?
2. How can we create a useful analysis tool to assist those with experience in Greek and Latin literature?

### What I'm currently working on:

#### Mid-thesis presentation

Will be writing up the script and the presentation slides on Friday afternoon.
Will practice scripts over the weekend.
There is a possibility that the specific time (originally 10:15) will be changed due to presentations from overseas students. I will keep the two of you updated.

Suggestions for content?

#### Travel scholarship considerations

Have not looked at scholarships yet.

#### User interviews so far

Will have interviewed 8 scholars by this meeting time.
The notes taken from the user interviews are on my ANU OneDrive account.
I will also try to upload the videos and audio (from those who gave me permission) to the OneDrive account.

### Upcoming dates to be aware of:

- DH2020 early interest deadline 4th April

### Next step and what's getting in the way:

Once I have gone through all of the user interviews (final user interview March 19th), I will be collating all the data and hopefully producing a report on the data inc. recommendations. I will start coding again after all this is done.

### Other discussion topics

## Action Items for Next Meeting (DD/MM/YYYY):

1.
