# Meeting 4, 11/09/2019

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

## Action Items from Previous Meeting
1. Convert all notes to Markdown - &#9745;
2. Put them all on Github - &#9745;
4. Create Python CSV to JSON parser - &#9745;
5. Develop a simple prototype - &#9745;
    * Follow Greta's data cards design, see Meeting 3 - &#9745;
    * Create disambiguation page for duplicate names - &#9746;
    * Add Scaife Viewer links - &#9745;
        * Link to the English translation or the original greek text?
        ``` Do a link to both texts side by side - see Greta's email```
    * Import entities - &#9745;
    * Create a gender parser - &#9745;
        * What to do about undefined parent genders? Data cards are specific re: mothers and fathers
        ``` Greta creates a gender reversal ```
        ``` Send Greta my list of unspecified genders ```
6. Write agenda for next meeting - &#9745;
7. Create README.md file for the project and overwrite existing README on GitHub - &#9745;
8. Come up with a draft research question - &#9731;
9. Discuss lightning talk presentation the following week - &#9746;
10. Discuss conducting honours theses remotely. - &#9746;
11. Do logical datum reversal chart - &#9731;
12. Get the csv from Greta with the heroes and disambiguations - &#9745;
13. Get Github access for Greta - &#9746;
14. Create a super simple logo for the project - &#9731;
15. Create a markdown file that automatically runs the data & entity parsers in the data folder, then "npm start" - &#9746;
16. Address duplicates in relationship markers (e.g. X son of Y twice) in database - human database input error - &#9746;


## Meeting Agenda

### Research Question in One Sentence:
We can derive a generic research question from the title of the project,  then elaborate on it in the subsequent sentences. e.g. one overarching research question and several sub-research questions. 

**Draft derivation of the title:** How can we analyse and visualise complex familial relationships in greek mythology?

**Draft potential sub-questions:**
* How can we analyse the complex relationships so they establish relevant and meaningful connections in the interface?
* How can we portray/visualise/display the complexities of these relationships in an intuitive manner? 
* How can we create an interface that explores these complex relationships, intuitive and exciting?
    * For the general population who are keen to learn
* How can we create a useful analysis tool to assist those with experience in the digital humanities?
    * For the researchers and academics already well-versed in e.g. Greek Mythology

### What I'm currently working on:

#### Datacards interface prototype
* See [github](github.com/yayalu/greekgraphs)
* Currently just grabbing the existing datums and outputting all the relationships relevant to the subject name
* Trying to import rudimentary logic reversals into the prototype.
* I will optimise once the foundations are working. 
* Will need to determine the overall design of the system
**Should we put in grandparent/grandchildren relationships in the datacards**

#### Noticed some errors in the database
e.g. Apollodorus Epitome 6.24 Agamemnon is father of Electra, Orestes. It is implied in the text that Clytaemnestra is the mother, but it's not in the database. How do we discern in the database between children and step-children?
Current situation - Clytaemnestra is not recognised as mother of Electra, Orestes
``` Greta to fix```

#### Generating a logical reversal chart for my own reference
* See [github logic reversals document](https://github.com/yayalu/greekgraphs/tree/master/Documentation/Research)
* What data model to store the reversals in the code itself? 

### Upcoming dates to be aware of:

#### Lightning talks next week (Tuesday 17th)
From the course wattle page:

> Please prepare a presentation consisting of at most 4 slides to introduce yourself (1 slide) and your project (3 slides). Of particular interest is: What is the problem you are trying to solve and why is it important? That is project description and motivation. 

> You have 3 minutes for your presentation plus 1 minute for questions. 

> Please submit your slides by September 16, 4pm in pdf format. "

My current plan: 

**Slide 1: Introduce myself**
* Fifth year software engineering student, interested in HCI and passion for greek mythology from a young age. 
* Fascinated by the story-telling and complex relationships/characters in greek mythology

**Slide 2: What is the problem?**
* Problem 1: The relationships are extremely complex - there is no data modelling mechanism for relationships of this complexity
    * Give a brief description of the different types of complex relationships - parthenogenesis, unusual births, shared parents, incest
    ``` Give an example of a super crazy hairy relationship that shows how ridiculous it is 
    See Greta's email
    ```
    * Most solutions cover one aspect, but none cover all different types
    * Problem 2: There doesn't exist an interface like this. All existing graphs on greek mythology try to follow a standard general tree structure, even though they are inaccurate and there is unnecessary character repetition. re: MANTO

**Slide 3: What are my motivations?**
* Motivation 1: Generate an interface that doesn't already exist - a more accurate representation of greek mythology relationships to benefit researchers in the area
* Motivation 2: Demonstrate the complexities of the family relationships in greek mythology to anyone who is interested - highlight the uniqueness of Greek Mythology as a method of storytelling
* Motivation 3: Create a rudimentary solution for display complex relationships of any sort - create a new norm for displaying family "trees". Could be easily expanded to other cultures with complex relationship dynamics - Romans and slaves, polygamy and polyamory, adoption and sperm donors. Adapts to the modern ideas of relationships.
``` A model for other complex storytelling traditions ```
``` Great teaching tool```
    
**Slide 4: What have I done so far?**
* Started generating a prototype
* Looking at existing DAG options and potential modifications
* Organising user research
    
### Other discussion topics

#### Semester 1 2020 plan for the UK
* Have received endorsement from Student Services, Uwe and Zhenchang to do the second half of the project in the UK
* Will potentially need to finish the prototype and have started conducting user research by the Summer
* Will need to immediately submit ethics approval and iron out what needs to be done
* Plan for overseas communication

``` Figure out my workload over in the UK, but Ben happy to supervise remotely ```
``` Do a lot by January, make sure to see really good progress over this semester and Summer```

``` User research:
1. Some studies before I leave - the biggest one
2. Do it online (less important where I am physically). Harder to do qualitative interviews.
3. Greta is most important user. 
4. Conduct targeted interviews, and then have done those interviews. 
5. First Year Greek mythology class in Semester 1 2020, ask if they can do the quiz. - quantitative
6. Do this once I've ironed out the research questions - different types of users.
```

#### Ethics approval
* Apparently this is something I need to do, and that I need to do it quickly because it's something that takes a lot of time(???)
``` Create some indicative questions, go to the dropin sessions ```
``` But don't need the names of the participants```


### Next step and what's getting in the way:
* Finishing the presentation and keeping the presentation questions / feedback in mind
* Integrating some form of DAG to my interface prototype
* Working on the interface more:
    * Addressing issues with duplicate entries (e.g. Theseus is son of Aigeus is mentioned twice)
    * Also refer by Subject ID since there are duplicate names
    * Order the familial relationships, and reference their location in the text - maybe link to the hero when you click their name in the page?
* How to display multiple authors disputing the same thing
    e.g. Theseus mother is Jane in one text, Aethra in another text
    e.g. Theseus father is Poseidon in one, Aigeus in the other, some have Aigeus as real father but also Poseidon as divine father


## Action Items for Next Meeting (27/09/2019):
1. Talk to Ajay about UK situation - workload over there
1. Do a simple logo - labyrinth
1. Do presentation for next Tuesday
2. Do ethics approval - go into the drop-in sessions
    * Prelim questions
    * Go to the drop in
3. Iron out research questions for next meeting, narrow them out a bit more (low priority)
4. List all alternative names under the main name
        ``` <Name>, <Name> ```
5. Fix duplicate entries issue
5. Do disambiguation page (also based on additional names)
6. Change "children" to "child" if there is only one
7. Change "wives/husbands" to "husband" or "wife" depending on gender
    * Change "husband" to "husbands" if multiple and same for wife and wives
    * Use ReactJS pluralisation interface  (JS Pluralize)
8. Write agenda for next meeting

BEFORE NEXT MEETING:
Finalise the data cards
Demo the JS charts - VERY SIMPLE VISUALISATION FOR BEN AND GRETA
Start understanding how to visualise the family trees



    



