# Meeting 16, 21-05-2020

Completed: &#9745;
Unattempted: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

## Action Items from previous meeting

__General website fixes__
1. Add "How to use this website" to the question icon on the corner - &#9745;
3. Fix the multiple icons showing up ("Hephaistos and parthenogenesis") - &#9745;
5. Add "contested" to legend instead of disputed - &#9745;
6. Athena shows up twice in depth zero - &#9745;
15. Extend the stage width to deal with Zeus - &#9745;
16. Change ScaifeViewer to english rather than greek - &#9745;
17. Mention in thesis - benefits of interactive graph vs static. Benefits of having both graph and data cards: - &#9745;
18. Modal not closing on datacard pages - &#9745;
19. setState of depthnodes height if there are only nodes depth zero and pos one (Asterios) - &#9745;
20. Finish figuring out disputed legacy - &#9745;
21. Figure out how to remove where all dies without children are listed as disputed when they are not. - &#9745;
7. Contested for dies without children (Asterios) - &#9745;
12. OR relationship top corner of box - &#9745;
- Put "OR" next to the disputed and unsuual relationships (e.g Pelasgos Autochthony) as well - &#9745;
- OR is on node by default, regardless of hovering - ignored this as can get really confusing
13. Check cases of half of contested parentaage showing (e.g. Coronis) and have the contested parentage info page show the full dispute, e.g. GORGOPHONE 8188440 disputed part. Seems to be okay with main entity's parents disputed, but not if the children are disputed - &#9745;
14. Add in multiple contested main entity parentage as well - Tyndareos 8190162 - &#9745;

__User interview prep__
1. Come up with a list of research questions for the user interview based on above - &#9745;
2. Going to the existing quiz on qualtrics and modifying it, some questions
3. Write up a paragraph on what to do to add to the pages etc. - &#9745;
4. Show Ben and Greta the progress and finalise it in our Thursday meeting
5. Aim to make it public Friday 12pm (latest Monday 12pm next week)

__Thesis__
11. Write up a rough main chapters thesis structure to show the team on Thursday - &#9745;

## Meeting Agenda

### Research Question in One Sentence:

???

### Upcoming deadlines

My thesis submission deadline is Monday 29th June 2020, 5pm.
I plan to work solely on the interface until 29th May 2020, and then strictly on the thesis until the deadline.

Give Greta first draft by Monday 15th June
- Until then, send Greta what I've done when I've done it, e.g. chapters completed
- Let Greta know in advance when sending words in so she can orgaise her time in case she has meetings etc.

Ben doesen't have a date in mind (will let me know)

### Second round of user interviews 

Make it public earliest Friday 12pm, latest Monday 12pm next week.

#### Paragraph of text to explain to the participants


#### Research questions / purpose for this second round of interviews

What are the research questions we want?
Focus on error-checking? Whether it's intuitive?

How we can build upon first round of interviews?
- First set of interviews were about finding what the best types had the most potential
- Acknowledge the first round of user interviews and their impact on the current one
- Mention the results from the first round briefly

Purpose for second one:
- Is this a good way of displaying mythical knowledge? 
- Asking for points of improvement

Want to create something intuitive, logical, communicates something. This is to test have we managed that? Best way to sshow this is through user testing.

#### Questions to ask / topics

Have created a document with a list of questions for the survey. I will be modifying the existing Qualtrics survey I developed for ethics approval earlier in the year, and the finalised survey link will be sent to Greta through email when I've removed some of the bugs in the graphs.

___Potentially too many questions? Which ones should I remove?___

The first section is personal information.
The second section is a bunch of multiple choice / likert style questions as they are quantitative and easy to fill out. This is beneficial for me as I will be collating this information in the middle of writing my thesis (busy times!)
- Likert scale questions, quantitative
(Allows us to do "X percentage of people rated this <Likely> or above")

#### Location for user interviews

Greta will be sending these links to the interviewees from the first round, putting it on the blog post, as well as on the Wattle page for the ANU First Year Classics course.

### Thesis writing

I'd like to have another meeting closer to the 29th to discuss:
* Structure of the thesis
* Optimal date for first/second drafts to ensure maximum opportunity for feedback
* Overall research questions

#### Use LaTeX?

Is it worth learning LaTeX? Unfamiliar with it.
Is it detrimental if I use Word instead?

``` Maybe use Overleaf instead? Not much different to using google docs ```
``` Use standard template, ask Jochen for the latest version ```
``` Ben has a template that has markdown and pandoc, Ben sent me a link through email```

Ben to discuss Markdown approach.

#### Thesis structure ideas

I have written up a brief draft for the thesis structure I'd like to go through with you all. Doesn't have to be today though - could be a brief meeting in the future.

#### Content

How explicit do we have to be about bugs? Do the examiners worry about bugs a lot when examining the interface? (Weighting of artefact in final submission)


## Action Items for Next Meeting (XX/XX/XXXX):
1. FIX: If both parents are disputed e.g. Tyndareos then have all permutations of parents shown (check contestedParents) - &#9745;
2. FIX: the sons of Lycaon not Lycaon in the name - &#9745;
2. FIX: Force scroll left when contested entity clicked - &#9745;
3. FIX: Delete text in the search field when enter a new page - &#9745;
4. FIX: Lycaon - targetID not defined when clicking Lycaon contested children. - &#9745;
5. FIX: Destroy of undefined in disputed connection Eurynome (8188355), Oceanus - Cannot read property 'destroy' of undefined
6. FIX: Add in incestuous relationships
    - (e.g. Eurynome & Asopos, child AND sibling)
    - e.g. Hera, sibling and spouse
6. FIX: Hera shows up twice in Zeus and vice versa
7. FIX: Draw a line between incestuous connections
    - Look at diagram in meeting with Greta
    - Iimplment Eurynome & Asopos connection
    - Implement Eurynome & Asopos info page
    - Implement Hera & Zeus connection
    - Implement Hera & Zeus info page
    - Add question to Qualtrics
    - Update legend for incestuous connection
    - Tell Greta when to provide more publicity for the project
3. Install / download Overleaf
4. User interview questions
    - Collate notes from today's meeting into a new survey structure - &#9745;
    - Update all survey on Qualtrics - &#9745;
    - Send Ben and Greta a link by tonight (Thurs 22nd May) - &#9745;
    - Receive feedback by tomorrow (Friday 23rd May) morning - &#9745;
    - Upload live link by Friday 12pm - &#9745;
    - Change all if not why not to "please explain your response" - &#9745;
    - Add page breaks to the quiz for the first section - &#9745;
    - Fix the whole issue with why / why not - &#9745;
5. Finalise thesis structure
    - Update the existing word document with new structure (see below)
    - Include updated information about literature reviews
    - Think about research question as proposed by Greta and Ben (in the Thesis Structure document)

