# Meeting 3 - 06/09/2019

### In attendance

Greta, Charles (Professor of Greek Mythology in France - Greta's colleague)

Charles - Professor in Ancient Greek, classics
In France, have imagined a database for some text that he's working on
How to communicate with digital specialised engineers not in classics or literature, but let them understand it and translate it
Went to a workshop on communication between scientists and scholars. + the dangers of a database

- Disappearance of data
- No maintenance of site
- Digital platform hosted by the French government
- Currently no funding though

Nodegoat
Recogito - text markup system that works with images.

## Action items from last meeting:

1. Convert all notes to Markdown.
2. Put them all on Github
3. Email Greta about inconsistencies
4. Create Python CSV to JSON parser
5. Develop a simple prototype
6. Write agenda for next meeting
7. Create README.md file for the project and overwrite existing README on GitHub
8. Come up with a draft research question
9. Discuss lightning talk presentation the following week
10. Potentially discuss issue with conducting honours theses remotely.
11. Finish logical datum reversal chart

## Discussion topics

### What happened in the last meeting with Ben (Meeting 2), show prototype progress so far

See meeting 2 agenda

### Data cards/index layout

```

NAME <underlined, capitals>
Identifying information: <not sure atm>

Geneological parts:
MOTHER: <name> <passage referencing, CTS ure, linking to the scaife viewer with the passage>
FATHER: ... etc.
        <father 1>
        <father 2>
SIBLINGS: (only full siblings) (ignore the gender)
WIVES / HUSBAND(S): <several names, including ex-wives/husbands>
            <only show WIFE for male, HUSBAND for female as there are no homoesexual encounters in the mythology>
            This can become complicated - wives vs lovers?
CHILDREN: <several names, no gender>
<don't reference aunts, even though in text. Is just circumstantial>

The events they're involved in:
<Not what I'm doing>

<Don't need images>
```

- Find some way to deal with duplicate fathers
- How to show same person with different names in different texts (one with more references = bolder? Need more references for this to work though)

### Questions about the datum parser: How to show the following relationships?

- “Is step-brother/step-sister/step-sibling/step-daughter/step-son of” in logical reversals?
  `No. As simple as possible. Restricted to full siblings`

- “Marries”?
- "Is born" e.g. with Apollo and Artemis, => twins? `Not necessarily. Can specify is twins`
- Roles and non-familial relationships
  - Slave, companion, guardian, divine patron, nurse `Not in the DataCards`
- Comparative relationships
  - Is older than, contemporary of, compared to??? `Only consider is older than, but hardly used, so ignore it`

### Do we have a logo for the system - to use on the website?

```No designs whatsoever
The system is called MANTO, is an acronym, but also Greek heroine but also chinese bun?
Greta looked for images of Manto online - but none, she's obscure
University just purchased a coin with Manto on it, but the problem with coins - they don't photograph it well. Need to ask an artist to redraw it
Simple and elegant is better than complicated and expensive. Not too many colours.
Needs to be on papers so recognisable with not too many colours
If could spend money on it - would be a map of the mediterranean with Manto's journey on it
The line of the itinerary without the coastline
Information about the logo on the about page
```

### Front page

Have a heatmap, with the Mediterranean covered with mist, except all those with huge mythological events associated with them.
Tht's one of the future mapping projects though

### Github access for Greta

Will do

### Duplicate names?

Currently using the identifying information - on the database to distinguish
So might need a disambiguation page?

## To do before next meeting (Meeting 4 - 11/09/2019)

- Find some way to deal with duplicate fathers / mothers etc
- Work on datacards
- Consider whta happens with multiple authors disputing the same thing
  e.g. Theseus mother is Jane in one text, Aethra in another text
  e.g. Theseus father is Poseidon in one, Aigeus in the other, some have Aigeus as real father but also Poseidon as divine father

- Greta will investigate situation with aunts / uncles - why we need them if we already know the sister / daughter relationship? `Greta is going to remove aunts/uncles`
- Duplicate names - make it clear, disambiguation page?
  - Get the csv from Greta with the heroes and disambiguations
- Complications ofrom fulll siblings?

- Get Github access for Greta

- Create a super simple logo for the project

## Potential future work

**Issue with multiple books**
Not revelant at the moment since just have Apollodorus, but something to consider for the appendix / future work section
**Filtering by author?**
