# Meeting 10, 27/02/2020

Completed: &#9745;

Unattempted: &#9746;

In progress: &#9731;

Parked for now: &#128663;

`All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks`

## Action Items from previous meeting (24/01/2020)

### Different graph prototypes

1. Try every graph layout algorithm out there and determine applicability to greek mythology - &#9731; `See scholar interviews`
2. Try all different styles of graph layout algorithms - e.g. ancestor fans and timelines and see how applicable they are to greek graphs `See scholar interviews`
   - Potentially do user research on them to see whether genealogical graphs are actually best? `See scholar interviews`

### Changes for the current prototype - &#128663;

**_Am keen to implement these, however will wait until user interviews are complete first._**

1. Create icons for autochthony and parthenogenesis. Add icons for those as substitute for triangle and circle
2. See if can implement Greta's suggestion for layered contested parents (alternating views)
   - Need to make it obvous they're from different worlds. Make it obvious that it's NOT possible for someone to have more than 2 parents. (e.g. more like different alternative universes)
3. Use opacity and line width and strong colours to denote unusuality/points of interest
   - e.g. if Hera has only one option for mother, the mother's name is darker font.
   - e.g. if 3 fathers shown, then those are more transparent (e.g. 33% chance that this person is father") - showing the weighting of the tradition via the opacity - show the strength of the connection
   - e.g. Zeus has 2 passage references in Hera's graph - so make Zeus' node darker? Denotes more certainty
   - Could be more useful once more texts are imported into MANTO
4. Make all alternative parents (contested) lighter font, show uncertainty . Find a way to show contest in a more intuitive way.
5. Make divine father more obvious, e.g. icon - thunderbolt
6. Determine how I can utilise the "digital platform" more - add what's not possible in a paper graph
7. Determine whether it's possible to trace back genealogies, e.g. trace Hera's genealogy back X generations, so that you can determine what event in her past caused an event in her present. Tracing DNA back. Timeline graph modelling?

### Thesis big picture

1. Figure out the big picture of the thesis:
   - Algorithmic?
   - Historical / research-focussed?
   - HCI/user-study-based?
   - Try to avoid terminology that results in computer science panel thinking it's an algorithms-developing thesis. My thesis is not a graph-layout problem! The problem is about showing data and how traditional genealogical data visualisations are inappropriate.

```Ben: the argument for the computer science thesis

It needs a clear argument.
What are we trying to achieve? Do good research to answer those questions.

Don't need to do hardcore graph theory
Present just a few bespoke ones.

Write a chapter on issues with off the shelf algorithms

Comment and reflect on that as part of the research
Why the standard family tree views don't work.
Why the standard graph layout algorithms don't work - how we can change them.

```

`Come up with coherent research question`

## Meeting Agenda

### What I'm currently working on:

#### Adding in Greta's new data

Greta has updated agent and ties lists, should we apply these changes before the user interviews?

#### Read lots of research on graph layout algorithms

Most of them are about edge-separation, however not sure I have the time to implement them, even less so creating my own version of the algorithm.
Will have to see how _not_ to give the external examiners mathematical expectations for the project.

`Do more research on that`
`What am I trying to communicate? For the user interviews`

#### Created a list of prototypes (static and dynamic) that use different off-the-shelf graphing algorithms

See [yayalu.github.io/greekgraphs-prototypes](yayalu.github.io/greekgraphs-prototypes).
Will be referenced in the user study to determine which graphing format is best for representing greek relationships.

Some of the graphs use different datasets, and others (e.g. timeline graphs) are incompatible with the data, but both cases are still shown in the website for completeness.

**Still TODO:**

- Add label text to the side of the collapsible graph

#### Interaction diagram (unusual and contested connections)

Created a mockup interaction diagram (see docs/InteractionDiagram.pdf) that shows the different interactive elements of the graph for review.

#### Scholar user interview preparation

Greta and I met up on Monday to discuss scholar user interview dates. She has supplied a wonderful (and huge!!!) list of interested scholar participants! So exciting!
Plan is to send an email out to all interested participants (after sending a draft version to Greta for review) and start user interviews next week.
Scholars who can't make the first round will be invited to the second round in early April.

**Updates to scholar interviews**

Users will be sent an email thanking them for their interest in the study. We will attach three documents/pages to the email:

1. Link to the existing [yayalu.github.io/greekgraphs](yayalu.github.io/greekgraphs) website with the filecards
2. Link to the graph prototypes page [yayalu.github.io/greekgraphs-prototypes](yayalu.github.io/greekgraphs-prototypes) with the different types of graphing algorithms
3. A copy of the interaction diagram for unusual / contested connections.

In the email we will ask that the users play around with the website and look at the diagram before the interview. They are not required to respond with their feedback through email - we will go through these prototypes again during the interview. It's just to give them a chance to explore the website without time pressure. Each link / page will have a disclaimer associated with it, e.g:

1. The greek graphs website will be testing their user experience with the filecards only - not the graph. However they are welcome to comment on the location of the graph on the page + provide feedback.
2. The graph prototypes page are a list of different types of graphs. Some are obviously incompatible with greek data and some use different examples for the data, not so important. Just comment on pros and cons of the different graphs + which formats stand out to them
3. The interaction diagram is not implemented yet, and the graph used is just an example (not final solution). However this is the proposed design for clicking on those graph components. Designed to highlight the unique factors in the graph.

I will then ask the users to nominate a time that they're most comfortable for an interview. Each interview should take 30mins-1hr. I'm happy to arrange the interview for any time that the user is comfortable (I have an erratic sleep schedule!)

Given the nature of the interview (conversational) there may be group interviews as opposed to singular interviews. Whatever the user is most comfortable with.

I will also ask in the email if they are comfortable with audio/video recordings, and I will ask again during the interview itself to confirm.

I sent a draft of the email to Greta for review, and will **need to update the list of user questions from my ethics approval to use as a script.**

`Don't need to worry about that`

**_Due to changes to the structure of the user interviews, do we need to inform ARIES Ethics committee?_**

### Upcoming dates to be aware of:

#### Registration dates for DH2020

We got into the poster section, yay!!!!!

Event is scheduled for 20-25th July. Conference 22-23rd. Workshops 20th, 21st, 25th

A few things we need to consider:

- Early bird registrations end 1st April
- Registration responses required by end of March
- How long to spend at the event?
- Getting an ADHO membership for cheaper ticket prices
  `Figure out Oxford thing`

#### Mid-thesis presentation 16th March

Compulsory mid-thesis presentation will be on the 16th March - 12 minute presentation, 3 mins of questions.
My timeslot is 10:15-10:30am.

Goal is to talk about the project. From Jochen: "I would like to hear about the problem you are working on, why it is important and interesting, what is the current state of the art, what is you own approach and contributions so far and what do you plan to do this semester."

`These are helpful questions`

```What is the state of the art
1. What are scholars currently doing?
Show a photo of the genealogical charts you get at the back of the books. "There;s no digital way ofdealing with that "
```

Bring up that I was accepted to present at a conference!

Plan to have an organisational meeting the previous week, e.g. Thursday 12th or Friday 13th March.

### Next step and what's getting in the way:

#### DH2020

- What travel scholarships should I be applying for?
  - I'm guessing the [VC's HDR Travel Grant](https://www.anu.edu.au/study/scholarships/find-a-scholarship/vice-chancellors-hdr-travel-grants)?
  - BUT I'M NOT AN HDR STUDENT
    `EMAIL CS ADMIN ABOUT WHAT SCHOLARSHIPS FOR ANU UNDERGRADUATE HONOURS STUDENTS`
- Visas situation for Canada
- Finalised abstract to submit to the conference organisers. - ask Ben and Greta to recheck current abstract and send in?
- Creating a poster for the conference (something to do once the thesis is submitted in late May)

#### How to structure abstract if product not complete?

### Other discussion topics

`How to travel insurance Uni`

## Action Items for Next Meeting (DD/MM/YYYY):

### Scholar interviews

1. Update the script for the user interviews
2. Send out the interview invitations email and organise interview times
3. Set up a recording system for the user interviews
4. Compile the user interview data once all the interviews are finished

### Graph prototypes website

1. Add labels to the collapsible graph page
2. Add MANTO logo to the graph pages

### DH2020

1. Registration for the event
2. Add in updated abstract
3. Apply for travel scholarship
4. Consider poster format

How much is it going to cost

### Mid-thesis presentation

1. Create and practise presentation speech
2. Create slides and submit to Jochen

"WHAT SPECIFICALLY IS IT FOR?"

### User studies

Highlight what it is I want to see from the user interviews. Open-ended "designing for serendipity, trying to present visualisations that wil lshow them something new - morphous but concrete"
"Did you see anything new?"
Script'
"DID THESE (FILECARDS) MAKE SENSE TO YOU?"
DID ANYTHING IN THIS GIVE YOU ANY SURPRISING INSIGHTS INTO GREEK MYTHS THAT YOU DIDN'T HAVE PREVIOUSLY?

MITCHELL WHITELAW GENEROUS INTERFACES
IS THERE ANYTHING ABOUT THIS WEBSITE THAT DOESN'T ACCURATELY REPRESENT THE GREEK MYTHOS
"HAVING SEEN IT, DO YOU WISH THERE WAS SOMETHING ELSE THAT IT COULD DO / DIFFERENT IT COULD DO.
WHAT IS IT ABOUT IT THAT YOU FIND USEFUL? RESTRICTIVE?"
HAVING CONCRETE EXAMPLES WILL GIVE PEOPLE SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT.

GET A CLEAR IDEA ABOUT WHAT I WANT TO GET OUT OF IT

COME UP WITH A RESEARCH QUESTION

FIGURE OUT WHAT I WANT OUT OF IT AND WHAT I WANT TO DO

coming up with a concrete goal for the system means I can actually know if what I create meets these criteria.

Get a question so that the script will be easy.

"DOES IT DO X? WHY NOT? ANY IDEAS FOR HOW I COULD DO X BETTER"
