# Meeting 4, 11/09/2019

Completed: &#9745;
Incomplete: &#9746;
In progress: &#9731;
``` All comments from Ben and Greta are in these code blocks ```

## Action Items from Previous Meeting
1. Convert all notes to Markdown - &#9745;
2. Put them all on Github - &#9745;
4. Create Python CSV to JSON parser - &#9745;
5. Develop a simple prototype - &#9731;
6. Write agenda for next meeting - &#9745;
7. Create README.md file for the project and overwrite existing README on GitHub - &#9745;
8. Come up with a draft research question - &#9731;
9. Discuss lightning talk presentation the following week - &#9746;
10. Discuss conducting honours theses remotely. - &#9746;
11. Do logical datum reversal chart - &#9731;


## Meeting Agenda

### Research Question in One Sentence:
We can derive a generic research question from the title of the project,  then elaborate on it in the subsequent sentences. e.g. one overarching research question and several sub-research questions. 

**Draft derivation of the title:** How can we analyse and visualise complex familial relationships in greek mythology?

**Draft potential sub-questions:**
* How can we analyse the complex relationships so they establish relevant and meaningful connections in the interface?
* How can we portray/visualise/display the complexities of these relationships in an intuitive manner? 
* How can we create an interface that explores these complex relationships, intuitive and exciting?
    * For the general population who are keen to learn
* How can we create a useful analysis tool to assist those with experience in the digital humanities?
    * For the researchers and academics already well-versed in e.g. Greek Mythology

### What I'm currently working on:

#### Datacards interface prototype
* See [github](github.com/yayalu/greekgraphs)
* Currently just grabbing the existing datums and outputting all the relationships relevant to the subject name
* Trying to import rudimentary logic reversals into the prototype.
* I will optimise once the foundations are working. 
* Try to simulate Greta's datacard examples
* Will need to determine the overall design of the system

#### Generating a logical reversal chart for my own reference
* See [github logic reversals document](https://github.com/yayalu/greekgraphs/tree/master/Documentation/Research)
* What data model to store the reversals in the code itself? 

### Upcoming dates to be aware of:

#### Lightning talks next week (Tuesday 17th)
From the course wattle page:

> Please prepare a presentation consisting of at most 4 slides to introduce yourself (1 slide) and your project (3 slides). Of particular interest is: What is the problem you are trying to solve and why is it important? That is project description and motivation. 

> You have 3 minutes for your presentation plus 1 minute for questions. 

> Please submit your slides by September 16, 4pm in pdf format. "

My current plan: 

**Slide 1: Introduce myself**
* Fifth year software engineering student, interested in HCI and passion for greek mythology from a young age. 
* Fascinated by the story-telling and complex relationships/characters in greek mythology

**Slide 2: What is the problem?**
* Problem 1: The relationships are extremely complex - there is no data modelling mechanism for relationships of this complexity
    * Give a brief description of the different types of complex relationships - parthenogenesis, unusual births, shared parents, incest
    * Most solutions cover one aspect, but none cover all different types
* Problem 2: There doesn't exist an interface like this. All existing graphs on greek mythology try to follow a standard general tree structure, even though they are inaccurate and there is unnecessary character repetition.

**Slide 3: What are my motivations?**
* Motivation 1: Generate an interface that doesn't already exist - a more accurate representation of greek mythology relationships to benefit researchers in the area
* Motivation 2: Demonstrate the complexities of the family relationships in greek mythology to anyone who is interested - highlight the uniqueness of Greek Mythology as a method of storytelling
* Motivation 3: Create a rudimentary solution for display complex relationships of any sort - create a new norm for displaying family "trees". Could be easily expanded to other cultures with complex relationship dynamics - Romans and slaves, polygamy and polyamory, adoption and sperm donors. Adapts to the modern ideas of relationships.
    
**Slide 4: What have I done so far?**
* Started generating a prototype
* Looking at existing DAG options and potential modifications
* Organising user research
    
### Other discussion topics

#### Semester 1 2020 plan for the UK
* Have received endorsement from Student Services, Uwe and Zhenchang to do the second half of the project in the UK
* Will potentially need to finish the prototype and have started conducting user research by the Summer
* Will need to immediately submit ethics approval and iron out what needs to be done
* Plan for overseas communication

#### Ethics approval
* Apparently this is something I need to do, and that I need to do it quickly because it's something that takes a lot of time(???)


### Next step and what's getting in the way:
* Finishing the presentation and keeping the presentation questions / feedback in mind
* Integrating some form of DAG to my interface prototype

## Action Items for Next Meeting (DD/MM/YYYY):
1. TODO



